annual report and accounts 2017 corero network security plc a leader in real-time, high performance, ddos protection. attackers are continuing to leverage ddos attacks as part of their cyber-threat arsenal to either disrupt business operations or provide a smokescreen while they access sensitive corporate information, and they are doing it in increasingly creative ways that circumvent traditional security solutions or reduce the previous effectiveness of ddos scrubbing centres. operating highlights • strong performance of flagship smartwall product • existing customer add-on orders up 320% over the prior year • high customer delight with >95% renewal rates for support and services • first two $1.0 million customers • encouraging uptake of ddos protection as-a-service (launched in late 2016) revenue $8.5m as contribution from legacy products reduced as expected (2016: $8.8 million) * c ompr is es the oper a tin g loss less unr ealis e d f or eign e x chan g e differ enc es on an in ter c ompan y loan, depr ecia tion, amor tisa tion and impairmen t of g oodwill. these solutions are designed to provide real-time attack mitigation with continuous threat visibility, enabling the monetisation of ddos protection as-a-service offering for service providers. this product portfolio has been further enhanced for 2018 with the deliverables from a two-year development program. corero protects organisations’ online systems, information, data, revenues and brand reputations against the growing cyber-threat of ddos attacks with dedicated technology for real-time mitigation of ddos attacks in seconds versus minutes, allowing good user traffic to flow uninterrupted. robust reporting and analytics, powered by splunk, transforms sophisticated ddos event data into easily consumable dashboards. the corero securewatch® service is a tiered offering comprised of configuration optimisation, monitoring and mitigation response services. businesses and government departments can protect their networks from ddos attacks fuelled by iot-driven botnets by deploying a real-time, automated solution at the network edge, which can instantaneously detect and mitigate ddos activity, thereby eliminating threats from entering a network. as with all ddos threats, clear visibility is a crucial step in detecting and defending against attacks. corero network security plc annual report & accounts 2017 06 operating performance against strategy our performance against our 2017 strategic objectives is summarised below: • establish smartwall as the leading solution for real-time ddos mitigation: continued progress in growing our customer base to 90 customers and the addition of a number of high profile customers including corero’s first us federal government customer, two one million dollar customers, first australian customer and first potentially significant revenue share contract with a tier 1 service provider. • new products to address the evolving requirements of the target market: corero further enhanced its market leading smartwall product portfolio in 2017 with the deliverables from a two-year development program with a new smartwall 100gbps capable product to capture growth in customer demand for 100gbps connectivity and smartwall virtual software appliance to capture demand for hybrid on-premises / cloud ddos mitigation deployments. the technology alliance partnership with juniper networks, a us based multinational corporation that develops and markets networking and security products, has provided benefits in 2017 with the opportunity for corero to expand its market reach by leveraging juniper networks’ global footprint. in addition, corero also expanded its ecosystem of world class partners and introduced an enhanced product portfolio. strategic report financial statements governance corporate directory 09 a wide range of critical cyber-security issues face every internet connected enterprise or organisation. the broad range of motivations for executing a ddos attack, coupled with the relative ease with which they can be performed, means that they are carried out by a variety of actors, including criminal gangs, activists, terrorist groups and nation state “bad actors”. (source: netscout arbor’s 13th annual worldwide security report, october 2017) • attack sizes have generally risen, but half average less than 10gbps which reveals determined targeting. we apply our sources of competitive advantage… automatic mitigation goal 99% no cus- tomer intervention required price cost effec tiv e en tr y poin t , leadership price/performance scalability modular and distr ibute d, pa y as you grow real-time imme dia te protection – seconds vs minutes accuracy lowest false positive r a tes, elimin a te collateral damage “investing in the corero smartwall tds system is the best solution to more effectively monitor and mitigate ddos threats automatically, in-line and in real-time. 13 strategic report financial statements governance corporate directory the corero strategy is to develop software and provide services to protect against a continuously evolving ddos threat landscape that threatens any internet connected business, or the providers that serve them. the science behind this tool is consistent with that promoted by bain consulting’s net promoter score® (“nps”). at corero, we do not explicitly track nps as each customer relationship is important to us. in turn, the efforts of our direct and channel sales teams are focussed upon persuading these prospects to become “customers”. key insight this extortion campaign launched messages demanding bitcoin payment, with a threat to execute attacks on september 30 unless the demands were met. boards and it professionals of cni organisations will be worrying about the implications of the nis directive, which will come into effect in may 2018. it could mean monetary fines for cni organisations that experience service outages due to a cyber-attack. regulations and compliance key insight over a third of cni organisations in the uk (39%) have not completed basic cyber-security standards. • freedom of information data reveals lack of cyber-resilience among critical national infrastructure (“cni”) organisations • cni organisations could be ignoring 90% of the ddos attacks on their networks by not mitigating short duration ddos attacks, which are frequently used by hackers to distract from data theft attempts corero network security plc annual report & accounts 2017 16 corero is dependent on revenue growth to deliver on its strategy. corero is an emerging player in the ddos prevention market and competes with much larger organisations. if corero is not successful in connecting with the market and raising its profile this will compromise growth plans. if corero is unable to recruit and retain the right skills this will compromise growth plans. duncan swallow company secretary 4 april 2018 financial review corero ended the year strongly, with a record final quarter smartwall order intake. corero network security plc annual report & accounts 2017 18 “smartwall revenue increased 43% over the prior year, whilst legacy product revenue reduced as expected.” andrew miller c hi e f f i n a n c i a l o ffi c e r “the drivers and target customers for the ddos market are an ever-widening and diversifying group as enterprises invest in products for on-premises and hybrid deployments and as service providers upgrade capacity because of massive attacks, network upgrades, and demand from customers for managed ddos services.” ihs markit technology research, ddos prevention appliances, biannual market tracker, november 2017 financial highlights revenue $8.5m (2016: $8.8 million) ebitd a loss bef or e unr ealis e d f or eign e x chan g e differ enc es on an in ter c ompan y loan, depr ecia tion, amor tisa tion, impairment of goodwill and fin ancin g $5.1m (2016: $6.4million) smartwall revenue 43% increase over the prior year, whilst legacy product revenues declined as expected. prior to this, andrew gained considerable corporate finance experience in london with standard bank, west deutsche landesbank and coopers & lybrand. corero network security plc annual report & accounts 2017 22 overview the cyber-security and ddos market growth fundamentals remain very strong, fuelled by rampant cyber-crime and a growing awareness of the significant threat posed by cyber-attacks, including ddos, as well as pending regulations. there is also a procedure in place for any director to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the company’s expense. andrew lloyd, executive director, has an employment agreement which can be terminated by either party on not less than three months’ written notice increasing by one month at the end of each complete 12 month period of continuous employment provided that the notice period shall not exceed six months in total. andrew miller, executive director, has an employment agreement which can be terminated by either party on not less than three months’ written notice increasing by one month at the end of each complete 12 month period of continuous employment provided that the notice period shall not exceed six months in total. it is a risk that the group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. given the conditions and uncertainties noted above we considered going concern to be a key audit matter. we also agreed to report differences below this threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. the group has adopted the following policy in respect of revenue recognition: 1. hardware and software products when a sales arrangement contains multiple elements, such as combined hardware and software products, licenses and/or services, the group allocates revenue to each element based on a selling price hierarchy, having evaluated each deliverable in an arrangement to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting. the tpe of selling price is established by evaluating similar and interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone sales to similarly situated customers. expenditure not meeting these criteria is expensed in the statement of comprehensive income – profit and loss. after initial recognition, internally generated intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses. all other costs are charged to the statement of comprehensive income – profit and loss as incurred. 2.12 impairment at each reporting date, the group assesses whether there is any indication that its assets have been impaired. using the balance sheet liability method, deferred tax liabilities are recognised in full for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. the related funding is shown as a financial liability and accounted for on an amortised cost basis. analysis includes grouping similar deals based on qualitative factors such as customer profile, size, and region followed by quantitative comparison to the then current besp. notes to the financial statements continued corero network security plc annual report & accounts 2017 52 14. trade and other receivables group 2017 $’000 group 2016 $’000 company 2017 $’000 company 2016 $’000 trade receivables 2,181 1,495 – – less: provision for impairment – – – – net trade receivables 2,181 1,495 – – amounts owed by subsidiaries – – 6,967 5,340 other debtors 137 138 76 69 prepayments and accrued income 713 674 – – 3,031 2,307 7,043 5,409 the banking facility of the group, summarised in note 16, is secured by assets of corero network security, inc. up to 80% of the trade receivables of corero network security, inc. included under ‘group’, can be financed and are therefore secured for credit enhancements. none of the company’s trade and other receivables are secured by collateral or credit enhancements. this equity fund raise is subject to shareholder approval at a general meeting of the company. directors, being the key management personnel salary & fees $’000 bonus $’000 benefits $’000 pension $’000 subtotal $’000 options $’000 company national insurance contributions $’000 total 2017 $’000 total 2016 $’000 executive directors ashley stephenson 270 54 15 – 339 5 8 352 351 andrew lloyd 243 31 – 12 286 9 33 328 32 andrew miller 205 39 7 21 272 4 34 310 329 jens montanana 34 – – – 34 2 – 36 39 richard last 26 – – – 26 1 2 29 32 778 124 22 33 957 21 77 1,055 783 bonus payments of $124,000 were awarded during the period to 31 december 2017 (2016: $63,000). 63 strategic report financial statements governance corporate directory corporate directory directors jens montanana (non-executive chairman) richard last (non-executive director) ashley stephenson (ceo) andrew lloyd (president and evp sales & marketing) andrew miller (cfo) secretary and registered office duncan swallow regus house highbridge oxford road uxbridge middlesex ub8 1hr nominated adviser and broker cenkos securities plc 6.7.8 tokenhouse yard london ec2r 7as auditor bdo llp 55 baker street london w1u 7eu solicitors dorsey and whitney llp 199 bishopsgate london ec2m 3ut bankers santander 2 the forbury reading rg1 3eu square 1 bank 406 blackwell street suite 240 durham north carolina 27701 usa registrars link asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu website address www.corero.com corero network security plc annual report & accounts 2017 64 corero network security plc annual report and accounts 2017 registered office regus house highbridge oxford road uxbridge middlesex ub8 1hr