→ housing operating margins reduced to 5.2% (2016: 5.6%), reflecting the revenue reduction and a resulting lower overhead recovery. this is achieved through works management systems, conservative accounting policies and a culture of giving attention to detail. we have, over recent months, needed to remind stakeholders of how mears is different from the competition. our focus has always been on a single service user, namely the individual in their home. this has been most evident recently where we have seen a lower rate than normal in the conversion of new contract opportunities. we supported our clients in postponing this planned work, knowing that it will return once they have confirmed their housing is fully compliant. while significantly bigger in scale than the group’s previous bids, they remain true to our core approach of focusing on services around a tenant, funded by public money . the group will increasingly focus its care bidding activity towards those clients where there are opportunities to provide housing services. we continued to secure social mobility champion status from the department of business, energy and industrial strategy. these achievements should not be forgotten in what has been a difficult political and trading environment. → mears has evolved its strategic focus towards housing management and placemaking activities where we are using our broader service capability to create stronger, more sustainable communities. → we firmly believe in our long-term care strategy and that mears is best placed to benefit as the market evolves. the mears operations are performing very well and i am encouraged that this excellent performance is putting us in a good position to secure new opportunities. we firmly believe in our long-term care strategy and that mears is well placed to benefit as the market evolves. looking ahead, we need to communicate more clearly the fundamental role played by care within our housing business. whilst very few contract opportunities have our housing and care services being tendered together, it is vital in housing that we can show that we have a deep understanding of the needs of our service users. we are currently on site in respect of three such schemes and there is a good pipeline developing. ” we need to communicate more clearly the fundamental role played by care within our housing business strategic report 08 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 q&a with ceo, david miles 92% of tenants rated our housing service as excellent in 2017 what’s next? we have continued to grow our broader housing expertise, with mears playing an ever increasing role in helping clients shape their placemaking plans. we have, however, created simple, relatively flat structures, focusing on ensuring good teamwork across the group. this is not an area where we can afford to stand still and we expect to make further improvements in 2018. sustainability and corporate social responsibility have always been an important part of the mears ethos; do you see that continuing? as a national social mobility champion and leading employer of apprentices along with our commitments to supporting women into the trades and promotion of better working terms for care workers, i am proud to lead such a great organisation. this includes an increasing role in using our broad range of services to create stronger, more sustainable communities, or placemaking as it is known. expenditure by local authorities and private registered providers in england, scotland and wales (based on official estimates) strategic report 12 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 growing demand to tackle homelessness we see significant opportunity for our housing management services, given the chronic shortage of affordable housing that is forcing councils to spend more than £2m a day on temporary accommodation for homeless families. there are 27.2m households in the uk and the number is expected to grow over 30m by 2027.¹ 2007 25.6m 2017 27.2m 1996 23.7m 2027 30.5m reasons for optimism: housing growth drivers £2.0m spent by councils each day on temporary accommodation strategic report 13 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 population an ageing population means the need to find new solutions for caring for people in older age is pressing. ’ 4 investment after decades of underfunding, there are real signs now that the political landscape for social care is improving. there has been concern that increased local authority spend would not translate into a better market for providers – that spending would increase the number of care hours available rather than improve pricing, but we are not seeing this borne out in practice. an additional £2 billion has been promised over the next three years from central government pots, and at a local level through ring-fenced council tax increases. of the nhs £120 billion spend is on older people 3 two thirds strategic report 15 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 our strategic priorities our strategy is to be the market leader in transforming housing and care. → good progress of our innovative jv with bromley housing to purchase, repair and manage over 400 homes. → began work on tendering for the two biggest opportunities that mears has ever seen, reflecting how we have been able to develop our services in line with changing client needs. carer churn data is only available from 2014. we are delighted that our service delivery has remained at the high levels. we anticipate particularly active contract bidding in 2018, but would be satisfied to maintain the order book at current levels. profit to cash conversion (group) this is a working capital management kpi, which remains the cornerstone of our business. the group is committed to protection of its assets through an effective risk management process, supported by insurance where appropriate. there is extensive fieldwork undertaken by risk auditors incorporating systems review, branch visits and cross-business surveillance. they are also responsible for reporting and monitoring key risks in accordance with established processes under the group operational policies. reputation no change definition mitigation we recognise that significant commercial value is attributable to the mears brand. → we drive a culture of putting our customers first; this is continually reinforced through internal communications. this induction ensures that all employees understand our values and it reinforces the group ’ s culture. local care branches are targeted on a monthly basis in the areas of recruitment and retention. → we have comprehensive safe systems of work which are well communicated through a robust and coordinated internal training regime. it and data increased gross risk exposure definition mitigation a major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the group’s ability to trade. a period of five years has been chosen as it broadly reflects the average contract length. we provide services to vulnerable people and even a short period of downtime could cause severe reputational damage. consideration was given to a number of key assumptions, namely future revenue growth, operating margins and working capital management. we are aware that a number of the financial results delivered in 2017 were below our high standards. mears through its dedicated training arm, is now delivering a wide range of apprenticeships which include plumbing, gas, multi-trade, carpentry and plastering. mears is an accredited training provider , currently training five apprentices from other companies in the south yorkshire area, and has a contract with rotherham college to deliver adult programmes, including introduction into construction, construction skills certification scheme (cscs) cards, and help with employability skills – our success rate for getting our attendees into employment is currently 80%. we are often being asked by clients and other stakeholders to have greater involvement in helping them deliver appropriate housing outcomes for a range of tenants. mears housing revenues are predominantly non-discretionary, which provides the group with protection from significant workload fluctuation. certain planned maintenance expenditure, whilst non-discretionary , does provide clients with scope to defer spending over the short term. this terrible event affected the timing of our planned maintenance workloads as clients’ attentions have naturally been diverted towards ensuring that their housing portfolios are safe and fully compliant. this is enabling us to bid for opportunities of a scale and breadth that would previously have been impossible. focus on building sustainable, long-term partnerships our broader service offering is enabling us to generate multiple revenue streams from single client relationships. review of operations continued housing continued blending contemporary design and sustainable materials strategic report 30 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 the housing division has historically sourced new contract opportunities through a competitive public procurement tender process. mears has always been highly selective and maintains a disciplined approach to bidding new contract opportunities. a bid conversion rate (by value) of around 33% has been consistently achieved, although within that blended measure there are other factors such as the proportion of reactive versus planned maintenance, and whether the opportunity is with an existing or new customer relationship. we have always tried to make decisions based on a longer time horizon and not short-term opportunism. offering positive lifestyle choices for older and disabled people in northampton, mears will manage and provide care to balmoral place, a development of 80 one-bedroom self contained apartments to people over the age of 55 who want to live independently with personalised care designed for their needs, with the added benefits of on-site services in a safe, secure and vibrant community. it is envisaged that the group will increasingly focus its care bidding activity towards those clients where there are likely to be opportunities to provide a complete housing service, with less focus on those opportunities which provide singular care services in isolation. whilst we have experienced some improvement in carer turnover during the year, with attrition rates reducing from 44% to 42%, this still remains at an unsustainable level. focus on building sustainable, long-term partnerships we are increasingly selective in bidding for new contract opportunities. these contracts are secured at rates which allow us to recruit a workforce delivering high quality care. strategic report 34 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 case study clear and sustainable contracts in care in november 2017, our care division won a large, new contract with staffordshire county council to become lead provider for homecare services. invest in the workforce to ensure that it is both motivated and well trained we have minimum pay levels for our staff which are set ahead of nlw. to support this activity, the group has put in place a £30m revolving credit facility for an initial two-year term. at 31 december 2017, £13.9m of this funding line had been drawn with the associated asset disclosed within assets held for resale. mears has taken legal advice and believes there is a realistic expectation that these funds will be recovered in due course. this charge relates to a number of acquisitions in both housing and care over recent years. the remaining unamortised value of £9.6m (2016: £19.8m), relating to order book and customer relationships, will be written off over their estimated lives. whilst our conversion record over the previous five years of 95% should provide comfort, this result warrants further explanation. whilst our year end ebitda to cash conversion measure has historically been reported as a key performance indicator for the group, we have always highlighted the group’s average daily net debt as being of greater importance. the evolution in strategic focus towards housing management and placemaking activities has seen mears starting to build new homes as part of managing the regeneration and delivery of affordable housing for clients to support their overall asset management plans. at 31 december 2017, £13.9m of this funding line had been drawn, with the associated asset disclosed within assets held for resale. additions in the year amounted to £3.7m (2016: £2.9m) with a carrying value of £7.7m (2016: £6.1m), which is amortised over five years. the majority of plant utilised by our operational teams is subject to short-term hire arrangements and motor vehicles are subject to operating leases and hence neither are included within capital expenditure or recognised as an asset within the balance sheet. the new accounting standard ifrs 16 leases will impact upon this treatment and is discussed in greater detail below. as detailed above, the group secured a property acquisition credit facility of £30m to acquire and build portfolios for resale. strategic report 39 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial review continued pensions continued group lgps schemes (no schemes (no lgps indemnity) indemnity) (indemnified) long term medium term limited-risk total number of schemes 2 11 17 30 assets £m 157.3 46.1 276.4 479.8 liabilities £m (132.6) (47.5) (277.4) (457.5) net surplus/ (deficit) £m 24.8 (1.4) (1.0) 22.3 it is pleasing that, despite the increasingly volatile macro-economic environment that has resulted in a downward move in the net discount rate and increased scheme liabilities, the group has reported an increase in its pension net asset from £8.5m to £22.3m. this ensures that the valuation of working capital balances is straightforward and contains few areas for judgement. on a positive note, the increased transparency over leases may drive more economic lease decisions and so deliver cost savings. we aim to lead the way with social value, delivering lasting and meaningful outcomes through positive community engagement projects. barry is currently employed as head of communities for hact, an innovation agency supporting the housing sector. new for 2018, the tool will provide insight into specific housing stock locations aligned to our client business. sue husband, director of the national apprenticeship service, said: “mears has been highly commended and i would like to congratulate them on their achievement. ” strategic report 42 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 mears group has always been a proud supporter of social mobility and so we were extremely pleased to be chosen as one of the government’s first 12 social mobility champions. this year, teams across the group have been taking part in a variety of events, specifically focusing on social isolation. this is an innovative scheme that supports older men who want to get together, share and learn new skills - all in the welcoming space of a shed. creating a peaceful home for former soldiers mears have joined forces with building materials provider travis perkins, to transform adelaide house, a former nursing home, in the malvern hills, which had been bought by rooftops housing association. once the victorian building has been renovated it will become a treatment and recovery centre for former soldiers living with post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd). we also have a commitment to continuously increase the number of local sme subcontractors on our approved list, ensuring that a proportion of contract spend remains within the local economy by supporting increased revenue generation and increasing employment opportunities. this approach, whilst supporting our wider social value objectives, ensures that any reusable items are reused/recycled as waste to landfill is minimised. in addition we place great emphasis upon social mobility and creating opportunities for people from disadvantaged backgrounds. principal external appointments: chairman, lakehouse plc chairman, totally plc n s a r jason burt non-executive director age: 52 tenure: 1 year skills and experience: jason burt was a senior partner at plexus law, specialising in complex employers’ and public liability claims. principal external appointments: none roy irwin non-executive director age: 63 tenure: 1 year skills and experience: roy irwin has significant experience in the social housing sector, having lately been chief inspector for the audit commission following a career of over 30 years in public sector housing. prior to joining mears, alan held senior roles at britannia building society , mars and smith & nephew. his commercial experience includes working with registered social landlords and a number of organisations in the healthcare sector. matters reserved for the board’s decision → group strategy, business objectives, long-range plans and annual budgets. role potential attended responsibilities include: chairman bob holt 6 6 → promoting a culture of challenge, debate, openness and support. feedback from communications with major shareholders and other investors, where necessary, is discussed at each board meeting. in addition, analyst views are shared prior to board meetings enabling an opportunity for discussion and challenge. following release of final results for 2016, investor roadshow spanning six days, meeting with both ‘buy’ and ‘sell’ side. q3 2017 following release of interim results for 2016, investor roadshow spanning five days, meeting with both ‘buy’ and ‘sell’ side. with his detailed knowledge of employers’ and public liability claims he is ideal for the role. audit committee meeting attendance g davies p dicks j burt e corrado key attended absent 60 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance in 2014 kpmg, as outsourced internal audit resource, carried out a detailed review of central financial controls and processes. estimated growth rates over each period are based on past experience and knowledge of the individual sector’s markets. the procedures performed by kpmg were undertaken within inherently risky areas that would affect kpi performance. whilst some of the short-term challenges in housing could not have been anticipated, the executive team expressed their frustration that a number of other opportunities that could have helped mitigate these challenges did not develop quickly enough. → all incentive payments are deferred into equity over a five-year period ensuring clear alignment with shareholders’ interests and ‘at-risk’ remuneration. the executive directors receive additional benefits including a company-provided car or an allowance in lieu, life assurance and private medical insurance. eps growth has been selected as it provides direct alignment to the company’s strategic objectives over the long term and is also transparent, fully understood by participants and an externally audited metric over which they have line of sight. pay arrangements in our businesses also reflect local performance with personal increases based on achievement, individually assessed. there will, however, be no automatic entitlement to bonus payments or share incentive grants during the period of notice. fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account independent advice and the time commitment required of non-executive directors. the chairman receives a single fee and does not receive any additional fees for membership and/or chairmanship of committees. non-executive directors also receive reimbursement of reasonable expenses (and any tax thereon) incurred through undertaking their duties and/or company business. executive director (£’000) year salary taxable benefits pension annual incentives total remuneration d j miles 2017 369 19 55 — 443 2016 363 19 54 — 436 a c m smith 2017 250 7 37 — 294 2016 242 7 36 — 285 a long 2017 205 12 31 — 248 2016 198 11 30 — 239 non-executive directors the remuneration of non-executive directors showing the breakdown between elements and comparative figures is shown below. statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited) directors’ share interests are set out below: director number of beneficially owned shares share interests total interests held at year end conditional unvested vested but unexercised share awards/ options options d j miles 175,020 103,999 60,730 339,749 a c m smith 110,000 69,333 — 179,333 a long 36,230 56,727 — 92,957 r holt — — — — p f dicks 39,541 — — 39,541 g davies 2,500 — — 2,500 j unwin — — — — j burt — — — — r irwin — — — — e corrado — — — — during the year, the following directors and connected persons exercised options, as detailed below: director date of transaction option scheme number of options exercised and sold option price sale price per share gain on exercise d j miles 22 march 2017 mip (2013) 103,999 1p 500p 518,955 a c m smith 22 march 2017 mip (2013) 69,333 1p 500p 345,972 a long 22 march 2017 mip (2013) 56,727 1p 500p 283,068 r holt 7 november 2017 sip (2007) 150,000 1p 476p 686,625 75 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance annual report on remuneration continued shareholder dilution in accordance with the association of british insurers’ guidelines, the company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten-year period to employees under all its share plans. in addition, of this 10% the company can issue 5% to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans. information required to be disclosed in respect of emissions and future developments is included within the strategic report. the group’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice. our process for identifying and managing risks is set out in more detail within the corporate governance statement. crest enables shares to be held in an electronic form instead of the traditional share certificates. this may be preferable for shareholders who do not trade in shares on a frequent basis. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. key observations based on our audit work, we found the valuation methodologies and assumptions made in management’s assessment of goodwill impairment were appropriate. we consider that the group’s disclosure is sufficient and have found no material errors in calculations. small variations in those actuarial assumptions can lead to a materially different value of pension liabilities being recognised within the group financial statements. key observations based on our audit work, we found the actuarial assumptions to be within an acceptable spectrum. we determined a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors’ remuneration and related party transactions. rebecca eagle senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of grant thornton uk llp statutory auditor, chartered accountants birmingham 19 march 2018 89 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 group financial statements 91 principal accounting policies – group 103 consolidated income statement 104 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 105 consolidated balance sheet 106 consolidated cash flow statement 107 consolidated statement of changes in equity 108 notes to the financial statements – group company financial statements 139 principal accounting policies – company 142 parent company balance sheet 143 parent company statement of changes in equity 144 notes to the financial statements – company shareholder information 151 five-year record (unaudited) 152 shareholder and corporate information 90 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements financial statements principal accounting policies – group basis of preparation the consolidated financial statements of the group have been prepared in accordance with ifrs as adopted by the european union and with those parts of the companies act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under ifrs and therefore the group financial statements comply with article 4 of the eu international accounting standards regulations. careful judgement by management is applied when deciding whether the recognition requirements for development costs have been met. in addition, all internal activities related to the research and development of new software are continually monitored by management. with the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist. current tax assets and/or liabilities comprise those obligations to, or claims from, fiscal authorities that are unpaid at the balance sheet date. deferred taxation liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences in full with no discounting. the carrying value of deferred taxation assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised. it is normal for this excluded element of the works to be billed under an sor arrangement. a defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. all employee services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. provisions against trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts are made when objective evidence is received that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due to it in accordance with the original terms of those receivables. bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. following initial recognition, financial assets are subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. in accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, estimates and judgements have been made by management concerning the selection of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, provisions necessary for certain liabilities, when to recognise revenue on long-term contracts, actuarial judgements, discount rates used within impairment reviews, the underlying share price volatility for valuing equity-based payments and other similar evaluations. none of these amendments are expected to have a material effect on the group’s financial statements. 110 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements 5. share-based employee remuneration continued the underlying expected share price volatility was determined by reference to historical data. the diluted eps is based on a weighted average of ordinary shares calculated in accordance with ias 33 ‘earnings per share’ , which assumes that all dilutive options will be exercised. there is no inclusion of any anticipated efficiency improvements which have not been formally committed to before the year end. management will only bid where the contract pricing provides good visibility of profitability, including a clear mechanism for future price increases and where there lies a strategic opportunity to provide housing services to the local authority client. 116 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements 10. goodwill continued care continued the business plan identified a number of key factors, which are built in to the value-in-use calculation: → mears has continued to be highly selective, targeting those contracts where the pricing, longevity and spend certainty allow mears to deliver a high quality service at sustainable margins. the churn rate of care workers varies at a branch level, depending on non-financial factors such as culture, working practices and recognition. the table below sets out selected financial information in respect of those subsidiaries: 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 revenue and profits revenue 121,392 119,213 expenses and taxation (117,185) (114,303) profit for the year 4,207 4,910 other comprehensive expense — — total comprehensive income 4,207 4,910 profit for the year allocated to non-controlling interests 1,263 4,170 total comprehensive expense allocated to non-controlling interests — — net assets non-current assets 1,469 1,813 current assets 41,019 45,565 current liabilities (18,254) (29,196) non-current liabilities (22,337) (20,474) total assets less total liabilities 1,897 (2,292) equity shareholders’ funds 1,801 (1,650) non-controlling interests 96 (642) total equity 1,897 (2,292) the group held investments in the following joint ventures at 31 december 2017: proportion held country of registration nature of business asert llp 50% england and wales dormant sapphire homes london limited 50% england and wales property acquisition sapphire homes london no. categories of financial instruments 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 financial assets fair value (level 2) diesel hedge – ineffective — 1,516 amortised cost trade receivables 51,602 49,086 amounts recoverable on contracts 88,948 98,405 cash at bank and in hand 24,770 52,904 165,320 201,911 financial liabilities fair value (level 2) interest rate swaps – effective (332) (1,090) fair value (level 3) deferred and contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions (11,163) (16,457) amortised cost borrowings related to assets held for sale (13,941) — bank borrowings and overdrafts (50,559) (65,278) trade payables (103,432) (111,490) accruals and deferred income (45,905) (44,055) other creditors (21,128) (8,668) (246,460) (247,038) (81,140) (45,127) the ifrs 13 hierarchy level categorisation relates to the extent the fair value can be determined by reference to comparable market values. the group’s overall average cost of debt, including effective interest rate swaps, is 2.3% as at 31 december 2017 (2016: 2.6%). 128 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements 21. financial instruments continued deferred and contingent consideration the table below shows the movements in deferred and contingent consideration: total £’000 at 1 january 2016 20,861 increase due to forward purchase agreement 6,163 paid in respect of acquisitions (10,019) released on reassessment (548) at 1 january 2017 16,457 increase due to forward purchase agreement — paid in respect of acquisitions (5,000) released on reassessment (294) at 31 december 2017 11,163 contingent consideration represents an estimate of future consideration likely to be payable in respect of acquisitions. key management personnel held the following percentage of voting shares in mears group plc: 2017 2016 % % directors 0.4 0.4 key management personnel’s compensation is as follows: 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 salaries including social security costs 1,765 1,762 contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 161 195 share-based payments 150 150 2,076 2,107 further details of directors’ remuneration are disclosed within the remuneration report. all employee services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based remuneration are measured at their fair values. deferred tax assets are recognised where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered. a defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. the company has also entered into a further two interest rate swap arrangements with barclays bank plc, comprising two £15.0m swap contracts with a deferred start date of august 2018 expiring august 2021 at an applicable interest rate of 0.96%. the registrar should be notified promptly of any change in a shareholder’s address or other details. 152 mears group plc annual report and accounts 2017 shareholder information the group’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this annual report which has been printed on arcoprint, made from an fsc ® certified and ecf (process chlorine free) material.