alpha exists because managing these exposures e ﬀectively is time consuming, resource intensive and expensive - often involving dedicated in-house treasury teams or outsourced currency management consultancies. however, these products in isolation do not provide a solution, and used incorrectly can often exacerbate currency risk further. partnering with treasurers, cfos, fds, ceos and mds, our focus is on helping these people improve their decision making in order that they can decision making in order that they can manage their currency exposure as e ﬀectively and e ﬃciently as possible. during the ﬁnancial year we have recruited staﬀ for our london oﬃce who are ﬂuent in foreign languages which has enabled us to steadily expand into select european territories. further operational progress was made with the expansion of our fx analysis team and through obtaining regulatory approval to sell derivative products. the majority of remaining new team members joined our technology team, spearheading new product development and technological innovation, with a particular focus on evolving alpha’s online currency management platform and payment functionality, as well as developing custom platform solutions for our clients. • since the year end, we have invested in our fund and institutional fx oﬀering, hiring two highly experienced sector heads, who lead a team solely focused on penetrating this space. the liquidity policy provides that: • weekly stress tests are carried out that subject the group’s net currency positions to simulated signiﬁcant fx market volatility; • robust margin call terms are maintained with clients; • an over extension of hedging facilities is managed through internally mandating a minimum amount of alpha’s free cash to be placed against each hedging facility extended; and • alpha’s balance sheet must be well capitalised with cash so that in the event that they are called for margin collateral by a banking counterparty but unable to call on their clients as they have granted them a ‘hedging facility’, they are able to fund the position. health & safety (covering rights) the board takes seriously its responsibility towards employees to provide a safe and healthy working environment. we recalculated the credit valuation adjustment using industry accepted techniques to compare against management’s own assessment of fair value. basis of consolidation (i) subsidiaries where the company has control over an investee, it is classiﬁed as a subsidiary. other payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. in the year ended 31 december 2017, alpha fx limited issued certain employees with a new class of share (“b shares”). daily stress tests are carried out to assess and minimise client credit risk exposures under various market volatility scenarios. summarised ﬁnancial information in relation to the non-controlling interest of alpha fx limited, before intra-group eliminations, is given below. contracts with notional principal amounts amounting to £700,000 (2016: £nil) were open as at year end and are included within trade receivables. 7 to appoint a proxy using the form of proxy, the form must be: (a) completed and signed; (b) sent or delivered to equiniti limited at aspect house, spencer road, lancing, west sussex bn99 6da; and (c) received by equiniti limited no later than 10.00 a.m. on 9 may 2018.