revenue by key industry sector* % food beverage pharmaceutical & biotechnology oem machinery oil & gas chemical healthcare power generation buildings mining & precious metal processing water & wastewater pulp & paper rubber & plastic textiles other * where there is little visibility of end user industry sector (primarily in sales via distributors), sales have been allocated across industries on a pro-rata basis. c. 50% * of group revenue is derived from defensive, less cyclical end markets, including: food & beverage, pharmaceutical & biotechnology, healthcare and water & wastewater. t o support this, we offer a comprehensive range of site audits and maintenance services to keep our customers’ industrial systems operating efficiently. we select responsible suppliers who adhere to our supplier sustainability code and they in turn create value for their stakeholders. innofill’ s unique packaging system extends product shelf life, keeping it fresh for up to 40 days, and increases manufacturing efficiency. spirax sarco korea is already seeing the benefits of these changes with increased sales efficiency and revenue generated from key industries. the ccx heater, part of the xtremeduty™ platform due to its ability to handle high pressures, has asme (american society of mechanical engineers) and ped (eu pressure equipment directive) pressure certification; marine grade casting, making it suitable for salt-laden environments such as offshore platforms; an explosion-proof terminal enclosure (junction box); and is iecex (international trade of electrical equipment used in explosive atmospheres) and atex (eu equipment directive) rated, meaning that it can be safely used in hazardous environments. we will continue to monitor on-going brexit negotiations and apply or adjust our planned response accordingly, as explained more fully above. balanced an approach which brings a high chance for success, considering the risks, along with reasonable rewards, economic and otherwise. in the americas, north america’ s industrial production returned to positive growth after two years of contraction, with a 2.0% growth 2016 exchange organic acquisitions 2017 organic reported revenue £757.4m £38.4m £48.1m £154.8m £998.7m +6% +32% adjusted operating profit £180.6m £16.0m £11.9m £27.0m £235.5m +6% +30% adjusted operating margin 23.8% 23.6% +0 bps -20 bps strategic report spirax-sarco engineering plc annual report 2017 35 rate seen in the usa. operating profit grew 7% organically to a reported £56.9 million.” paul lee suay wah divisional director, asia pacific industrial production growth rates, 2017* * compared with the prior year. the usa has seen signs of some small, but uneven, recovery in industrial production, impacted by hurricanes harvey and, to a lesser extent, irma. operating profit of £31.6 million was ahead 1% organically.” sheldon banks divisional director, americas industrial production growth rates, 2017* * compared with the prior year. integration and strategy update post-acquisition, chromalox has continued to operate as a stand-alone global division, maintaining its brand within the spirax sarco business group. water & wastewater continued to be variable, with reduced project size in the usa but strong base business driven by market gains across north america and europe from our qdos range of pumps. operating profit was up 6% organically to a reported £80.3 million.” jay whalen executive director, watson-marlow industrial production growth rates, 2017* * compared with the prior year. excluding aflex, margins expanded by 40 bps as operational gearing and transactional currency benefits more than offset increased revenue investment for growth. we established a us east coast pharmaceutical & biotechnology direct sales team and invested in increasing headcount specifically to address this important market. econotherm’ s performance in 2017 was similar to 2016, with our share, net of tax, reflecting a break- even position (2016: £0.1 million loss). dedicated resource is focused on identifying opportunities to add attractive businesses that closely match our strategic, industrial and commercial requirements. unlike previous years, there were no significant plant expansion projects in 2017 with spend being spread over a number of investment categories including the “future factory” programme at our steam facility in cheltenham to upgrade machine tools and an upgrade of it equipment at gestra’ s bremen facility . the new company is 51% owned by a charity called tomorrow trust, which supports orphaned and vulnerable children throughout their educational journey. we are actively promoting a h&s culture, encouraging our employees to adopt safe working practices at all times. next steps for 2018 − phase 3 roll out of the code to direct material suppliers of recently acquired businesses hiter, aflex, gestra and chromalox − expand supplier audits incorporating sustainability criteria and enhance the training of key audit personnel − apply audit results in the supplier selection process to preferentially select suppliers − continue to mitigate supply chain risks modern slavery act statement spirax-sarco engineering plc prides itself on setting high standards for sustainable and ethical business practices in its operations worldwide. we have decided not to report global group waste data until assurance processes are fully implemented and demonstrate improved levels of material confidence. our water use varies considerably due to changing demands for steam generation during new product development, quality and safety assurance testing. included within that boundary are manufacturing facilities, administrative and sales offices where we have authority to implement our operating policies. performance in 2017 we estimate that a select range of energy management products sold during 2017 will reduce our end users’ co 2 emissions by 5.8 million tonnes annually. the calculation is based on a selected range of energy saving products for which we can quantify savings with reasonable accuracy. the donation promotes steam engineering knowledge, helping to meet a skills gap, and raises awareness of spirax sarco amongst young engineers. we are well prepared for significant work in the period late 2018 to early 2019 as actual brexit and post-brexit trading relationships crystalise. t wo ftse chairmanships is also compliant with the 2017 proxy adviser voting guidelines including those issued by institutional shareholder services and glass lewis. the pwc report concluded that peer review works well and should continue, but also made a number of recommendations for improvement. security policies have been improved with an extensive compliance programme on core activities such as the updating of microsoft patches. all operating companies are required annually to complete self-certification questionnaires regarding compliance with the policies, procedures and minimum requirements for an effective system of internal controls. internal audits are conducted by experienced, qualified accounting staff from principal group operating companies and a professional auditing firm, bdo international. 2017 was a good year for the group which delivered earnings growth, maintained operating profit margin and increased dividend to shareholders. watson 17.07.09 03.08.15 16.07.18 1 month 1 all letters of appointment and service agreements are available for inspection at the group’s headquarters in cheltenham. 1.8 external directorships kevin boyd served as a non-executive director at emis group plc during 2017, for which he received and retained total fees of £40,000. executive directors who have transferred internally from overseas may continue to participate in home country pension arrangements and/or receive a cash allowance. vesting is currently based on two performance measures, which have been chosen as they are clearly aligned with our strategic objectives: − tsr; and − eps growth. it is the group’ s policy not to undertake speculative transactions which create additional exposures over and above those arising from normal trading activity. these forward-looking statements reflect management’ s assumptions made on the basis of information available to it at this time. spirax-sarco engineering plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under english law. – in consultation with our internal valuation specialists we audited key assumptions based on external market data including the ebit margin, discount and short term growth rate. for all components, we held close calls after they reported into us and as deemed necessary, conducted share screen reviews. a further reduction to 17% (effective from 1st april 2020) was substantially enacted on 15th september 2016. this will reduce the group's future current tax charge accordingly. net cash flows between any two currencies of less than £1.0 million per annum would not usually be considered sufficiently material to warrant forward cover. transactional (or non-structural) exposures give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the consolidated income statement. over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings. at 31st december 2017 , it is estimated that a general increase of one percentage point in interest rates would decrease the group’s profit after tax and equity by approximately £1.5m (2016: £nil). all operate in steam, electrical thermal energy solutions, fluid path technologies or peristaltic pumping markets except those companies identified as a holding company on pages 171 to 175. ltd block 2, unit 5 threave court, castlehill industrial estate, carluke, ml8 5uf spirax-sarco america ltd (h) charlton house, cirencester road, cheltenham, gloucestershire, gl53 8er, united kingdom spirax-sarco investments ltd* (h) charlton house, cirencester road, cheltenham, gloucestershire, gl53 8er, united kingdom spirax-sarco overseas ltd* (h) charlton house, cirencester road, cheltenham, gloucestershire, gl53 8er, united kingdom gestra uk ltd* charlton house, cirencester road, cheltenham, gloucestershire, gl53 8er, united kingdom corporate information spirax-sarco engineering plc annual report 2017 171 strategic report governance report financial statements corporate information our global operations americas country company name registered office address argentina spirax sarco sa 866 paraguay st., 3rd floor, buenos aires (1057), argentina brazil spirax sarco ind e com ltda avenida manoel lages do chão, 268, bairro portão, cotia, são paulo, 06705-050, brazil spirax-sarco servicos de engenharia ltda avenida manoel lages do chão, 268, bairro portão, cotia, são paulo, 06705-050, brazil hiter controls engenharia ltda av. 3, beishen road, shenkeng district, new taipei city 222, taiwan thailand spirax sarco (thailand) ltd 95 rama 9 road, soi 59, kwang suanluang, khet suanluang, bangkok 10250, thailand vietnam spirax sarco vietnam co ltd 4th floor, 180 nguyen van troi street, ward 8, phu nhuan district, ho chi minh city, vietnam corporate information 172 spirax-sarco engineering plc annual report 2017 our global operations continued chromalox country company name registered office address canada canadian heat acquisition corp (h) 7051 68th ave nw, edmonton, alberta, t6b 3e3, canada protrace engineering, inc suite 205, 6204-6a street se, calgary, alberta, t2h 2b7 , canada china chromalox precision heat control (shanghai) co ltd 88 taigu road, suite a2, 4th floor - fenggu building, shanghai, 200131, china chromalox precision heat control (suzhou) co ltd t02, no 1801, pangjin road, pangjin industrial park, wujiang, suzhou, 215200, china france etirex sas 23 route de chauteau thierry, noyant-et-aconin, soissons, cedex, f-02203, france germany chromalox germany gmbh im defdahl 10 c, dortmund, 44141, germany hong kong chromalox hong kong holdings ltd (h) 33/f, shui on centre, nos 6-8 harbour road, wanchai, hong kong india chromalox india precision heat & control private limited 1st floor, 6 unicom house, a-3 commercial complex, new delhi, janakpuri, 110058, india mexico elw industrial s. de r. l. de c.v. carretera nacional, k.m. robson general counsel and company secretary spirax-sarco engineering plc charlton house cirencester road cheltenham gloucestershire gl53 8er telephone: 01242 521361 facsimile: 01242 581470 email: company.secretary@uk.spiraxsarco.com website: www.spiraxsarcoengineering.com auditor deloitte llp financial adviser rothschild financial pr citigate dewe rogerson bankers barclays bank plc hsbc bank plc corporate brokers bank of america merrill lynch registrars equiniti aspect house spencer road lancing west sussex bn99 6da telephone: 0371 384 2349* (uk) or +44 (0)121 415 7047 (overseas) * lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, monday to friday, excluding english public holidays website: www.shareview.co.uk solicitors baker & mckenzie llp important dates annual general meeting 15th may 2018 final dividend** ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 26th april 2018 record date for final dividend 27th april 2018 final dividend payable 25th may 2018 ** subject to shareholder approval at the agm.