2005 2010 2015 chairman’s statement continued 2009 eurozone crisis 2005 savills 150th anniversary & rebrand 2015 savills acquired smiths gore and seb 2007–2008 the financial crisis 2014 studley rebrands as savills studley 2013 new global hq 06 savills plc report and accounts 2017 people i would like to express my thanks to all our staff worldwide for their hard work, commitment and continued focus on client service, enabling the group to deliver this record performance in 2017. outlook we have made a solid start to 2018 with a pipeline of business carried over from last year in many markets, although this is against the backdrop of heightened market uncertainty, geopolitical risks and rising interest rates. 08 savills plc report and accounts 2017 outstanding people local knowledge entrepreneurial approach long-term client relationships client care programmes high quality servicer intellectual property market intelligence brand and reputation financial prudent capital structure strong cash generation defensive, scale business cyclical high-margin businesses revenue by business property and facilities management 32% commercial transactions 36% consultancy 17% residential transactions 11% investment management 4% our values pride in everything we do take an entrepreneurial approach to business help our people fulfil their true potential always act with integrity governance board oversight high standards of governance disciplined approach to risk risk mitigation to limit exposure to any one market or economy business and geography diversification underpinned by people training and development restructured training programme employee engagement achieved one star status diversity uk diversity group reducing environmental impact carbon emission reduction community investment community engagement programmes clients high quality service client care client relationship management team community shareholders dividends 30.2p underlying earnings per share 75.8p underlying profit £140.5m financial statements governance strategic report overview 09 savills plc report and accounts 2017 spotlight on europe the european economy enjoyed the strongest period of economic growth in more than a decade, despite lingering political uncertainty. just under half of last year’s acquisitions were by non-domestic investors, with this proportion rising to 80% in the greater london market. elsewhere price adjustments have been much less significant, though prices for high value homes fell marginally across the commuter zone. we note that investors are also beginning to explore a broader realm of asset classes beyond simply office and retail. pere noted that the trend for more opportunistic and value added funds fell in 2017, from 63% to 60% of investors strategies. savills investment management was also recognised with three funds winning best performer awards from msci/ipf and property investor europe during the year. investment performance continued strongly with the majority of our fund products continuing to exceed their benchmarks over a five year term. the group does not engage in trades of a speculative nature and only uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. when considering new market entry we undertake due diligence including the impact assessment of political and economic issues in that particular country. business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated. we have launched “unconscious bias” training led by the uk executive committee, which is now part of all development programmes including company induction. ultimately this approach provides a complete insight into our clients’ priorities so that we can make the appropriate skills, expertise and resources available. in consequence, we are now reporting on ghg emissions at a more granular level from our uk, europe, us, canada, australia, new zealand, hong kong, japan, singapore, and key chinese operations. this substantial reduction has been achieved through progressive initiatives to improve the environmental efficiency of our offices, including more energy efficient lighting, better climate control and it upgrades. board papers are circulated electronically via a secure portal, giving directors sufficient time to consider and digest their contents. simon was chief operating officer of profile therapeutics plc for five years and also worked as a corporate financier, latterly at hambros bank limited. he was subsequently appointed chief executive in january 2006. justin previously held a number of senior positions at henderson global investors, lend lease and the amp society. the group’s website includes a specific investor relations section containing all rns announcements, share price information and annual reports available for download. this approach also ensures that our reward arrangements are consistent with and sensitive to the cyclical nature of real estate markets. an overview of the key decisions for 2018 is as follows: • base salaries: we have an established approach of offering low base salaries, relative to market medians (which approach applies to the executive directors, group executive board members and other senior fee earners). fit remuneration consultants’ fees are based on a time and material basis, within the parameters of an overall annual budget. in line with the group’s philosophy that there is greater emphasis (than under listed company norms) on variable performance-related pay. consequently, 50% of any award payable above an amount equal to base salary is deferred into shares for three years. the remaining 25% of annual performance-related profit share awards was based on individual performance against key strategic and operational objectives. in line with the group’s philosophy, there is greater emphasis on variable performance-related pay, while base salaries are set significantly below market median levels. unless the committee determines otherwise, this scale will normally be adjusted for any acquisitions/disposals in a single year which impact (on an annualised basis) upbt by more than 7.5%. performance conditions are currently based on two measures: • relative tsr against the ftse 250 (excluding investment trusts) or other appropriate comparator group • earnings per share. by order of the board chris lee group legal director & company secretary 14 march 2018 savills plc registered in england no. we believe that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work. the group also refers to revenue and underlying profit on a constant currency basis which are both non-gaap measures. the group’s investment in associates includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition (see note 17.1). (b) commercial transactional fees generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or when unconditional contracts have been exchanged. (e) investment management revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements. a risk control framework is used to assess the credit quality of clients, taking into account financial position, past experience and other factors. no credit limits were exceeded during the reporting year, and management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties. this assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such assets. asia pacific segment operations are based in hong kong, macau, china, south korea, japan, taiwan, thailand, singapore, vietnam, australia, indonesia, malaysia and myanmar. continental europe segment operations are based in germany, france, spain, the netherlands, belgium, sweden, italy, ireland, poland and czech republic. other geographical areas, although largely commercial-based, also provide residential services, in particular hong kong, china, vietnam, singapore, australia, taiwan and thailand. these calculations use discounted cash flow projections based on financial budgets and strategic plans approved by management covering a five-year period. the risk-adjusted discount range of rates used in each region for impairment testing are as follows: 2017 discount rate range 2016 discount rate range united kingdom 10.0% 10.0% continental europe 10.0% 10.0% asia pacific 11.2%–18.1% 11.6%–18.1% north america 10.0% 10.0% 121 s a v ill s p l c report and accounts 2017 financial statements governance strategic report overview (c) long-term growth rate to forecast beyond the five years covered by detailed forecasts, a terminal value was calculated, using average long-term growth rates. 129 s a v ill s p l c report and accounts 2017 financial statements governance strategic report overview as at the reporting date the group did not recognise deferred tax income tax assets of £1.4m (2016: £0.4m) in respect of losses amounting to £5.9m (2016: £1.2m) that can be carried forward indefinitely against future taxable income. the credit quality of receivables is managed at a local subsidiary level with uncollectible amounts being impaired where necessary. the company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.