our property & casualty business (p&c or aldagi) is a leading player in the georgian p&c insurance market, with a market share of 38.6% based on gross premiums earned as of and for the nine months ended 30 september 2017. the company offers a wide range of insurance products in georgia to corporate and retail clients, covering more than 47,000 customers through five business lines: motor, property, credit life, liability and other insurance services. ghg is also the second largest provider of medical insurance in georgia with a 29.0% market share based on gross revenue and has approximately 155,000 insurance customers at january 2018. at 31 december 2017, in line with ifrs, ghg is classified as a “disposal group held for sale” and the results of its operations are reported under “discontinued operations”. we will have created three large groups, all quoted on the london stock exchange, each with their own board, management, and strategic logic. the new york times reported last year on russia’s attempts to provoke georgia on the boundaries of abkhazia and south ossetia – all true; but we also see that russia is doing more business with georgia, specifically in terms of transport links and increased tourism flows. elsewhere, turkey remains georgia’s largest trade partner, whilst the development of trading links with iran are likely to take more time than we originally thought. the bank is repositioning its portfolio away from straight lending to corporates which require capital and see their margins diminishing. the bank has a very good management team with kaha kiknavelidze as its leader, and they are at work on this strategy. during his tenure at bgeo, irakli has taken a georgia quoted bank and transformed it into the organisation with multiple businesses which we have today. the economic liberty act also requires electorates’ approval through a nationwide referendum for imposing new taxes and raising existing tax rates, subject to certain exceptions. moreover, georgia-china economic ties are increasing and a free trade agreement signed in 2017 is expected to further expand the chinese market for georgia’s exports. georgia is a regional energy corridor that accounts for approximately 1.6% of the world’s oil and gas supply transit volumes. georgia’s existing free trade deals (with the eu, cis, efta, turkey, and china) enable it to access a market of 2.8 billion customers without customs duties. the prospective free trade agreements with hong kong and india also offer significant upside potential for georgia’s exports. ongoing reforms in various directions – pension reform, capital market development and business enhancing measures – are expected to further support investments, thus reinforcing the country’s economic potential. corporate governance post demerger robust and transparent corporate governance framework to be put in place on demerger georgia capital bank of georgia rationale for demerger neil janin independent non-executive chairman formerly a director of mckinsey & company based in paris, for over 27 years irakli gilauri chairman and chief executive officer bgeo ceo since 2011, previously bog ceo since 2006. formerly an ebrd banker jonathan muir independent non-executive director ceo of letterone. two key metrics we use to measure banking business performance are: (1) return on average equity (roae) targeted at 20%, and (2) 15%-20% growth of our loan book. this includes american express platinum cards, which were also launched in 2017 and are available to solo club members only. • flexibility to use own shares as acquisition currency n/a n/a 25 annual report 2017 bgeo group plc strategic report overview strategic report strategy strategic report performance governance financial statements additional information ggu – natural monopoly in the water business, with upside in electricity generation and sales ggu has a significant opportunity to increase its operational cash flow over the next few years from a combination of improving cash collection rates, growing cost efficiencies from cutting technical and commercial water loss rates, and reducing energy consumption internally to preserve the supply available for sale to third parties, while also planning the construction of hydro, wind and solar power generation plants. the key elements of ggu’s business strategy are outlined below: • reducing water loss rates and increasing energy efficiency. asa result of achieving efficiencies in its own energy consumption, ggu expects to free up electricity for third-party sales. the georgian retail insurance market offers ample room for growth, as most of its potential is yet to be unlocked. although the level of insurance penetration within the corporate segment is relatively high compared to retail and sme segments, a combination of favourable georgian macroeconomic conditions, a good investment climate, stable economic growth and an increase in infrastructure projects will further increase customer demand for insurance products. targets and priorities for three business directions • no mandatory lines, border and local mtpl, also gtpl mandatory insurance to be introduced • develop simple products for mass retail • digitilisation of all processes • more partnership with financial institutions after demerger • underpenetrated market • developing tailored products • digital portal for sme • good investment climate • stable economic growth • increase in infrastructural projects retail | penetration low sme | penetration zero corporate | penetration gel c.16 million gel 50 million 2017 2022 aldagi profit 28 annual report 2017 bgeo group plc teliani – creating a leading beverage producer and distributor in south caucasus teliani valley aims to become a leading beverage producer and the biggest distribution company not only in georgia, but in south caucasus. the credit quality review process is continuous and provides early identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of customers, including regular collateral revaluations, potential losses and corrective actions needed to reduce risk, which may include obtaining additional collateral in accordance with underlying loan agreements. as part of this process, we engage in constructive dialogue with regulatory bodies, where possible, and seek external advice on potential changes to legislation. key drivers/ trends during 2017, we saw a number of major organisations subjected to cyber-attacks, although fortunately, our operations were not materially affected. mitigation we have an integrated control framework encompassing operational risk management, it systems, corporate and other data security each of which is managed by a separate department. for each business, we focus on building a strong management team and have successfully been able to do so thus far. the bank has elaborated a framework, which is in compliance with normative acts defined by georgian legislation and international standards. these procedures are now being integrated into the bank’s credit risk management process and soon will be routinely applied to all commercial transactions. in 2017, the bank financed several important projects and among them is caucasus roads project (crp) – a leading georgian construction company with its main focus on core infrastructure. the bank supported atlantic group, a french manufacturer of heating systems and home appliance products, with around us$ 2 million credit line. examples of such products are student loans with favourable terms that do not require any financial guarantees and collateral. aldagi’s employees are engaged in various programmes that supply socially vulnerable people with food and first aid kits. after construction and renovation works are completed, seven children with severe forms of disability will be moved to live in the house. ggu has been working in collaboration with the country’s leading universities, professional colleges and their career services to attract new talent. the corporate and information security department provides annual online training for employees on anti-bribery issues, which are also included in induction trainings. centralised uninterruptible power supply is being installed in the bank’s service centres, which will save considerable energy resources compared to individual systems. the y-o-y increase in 2017 was largely driven by a) gel 1.5 million net gains on derivative financial instruments recorded in 2017, and b) gel 7.3 million revaluation gain from investment properties recorded in 2017 operating income before non-recurring items; cost of credit risk; profit for the period gel thousands, unless otherwise noted 2017 2016 change y-o-y salaries and other employee benefits (198,213) (168,374) 17.7% administrative expenses (100,291) (82,113) 22.1% banking depreciation and amortisation (40,974) (37,207) 10.1% other operating expenses (3,458) (3,854) -10.3% operating expenses (342,936) (291,548) 17.6% profit from associate 1,311 – nmf operating income before cost of credit risk 567,710 482,359 17.7% impairment charge on loans to customers (155,210) (158,892) -2.3% impairment charge on finance lease receivables (496) (777) -36.2% impairment charge on other assets and provisions (11,590) (8,083) 43.4% cost of credit risk (167,296) (167,752) -0.3% profit before non-recurring items and income tax 400,414 314,607 27.3% net non-recurring items (4,300) (45,355) -90.5% profit before income tax 396,114 269,252 47.1% income tax (expense) benefit (26,592) 26,444 nmf profit 369,522 295,696 25.0% • operating expenses increased to gel 342.9 million in 2017 (up 17.6% y-o-y). the y-o-y decrease was largely driven by winding down lending relationships with several large borrowers in 2017 as a result of risk de-concentration and loan portfolio repositioning targets. effective from 2q17, we are reporting ggu results on a pro-forma basis together with renewable energy business and have retrospectively revised the comparable information accordingly. m 2 targets to meet the unsatisfied demand in tbilisi for housing through its well established branch network and sales force. aldagi has distributed dividends totaling gel 14.1 million since 1h16, of which gel 7.1 million was paid in 3q16 and gel 7.0 million in 2q17 standalone results our property and casualty (p&c) insurance business is operated through the group’s wholly-owned subsidiary aldagi, which is a leading player in the local p&c insurance market with a market share of 38.6% based on gross premiums earned at 30 september 2017. the company offers a wide range of insurance products in georgia to corporate and retail clients, covering more than 47,000 customers through five business lines: motor, property, credit life, liability and other insurance services. aldagi is working closely with isssg to support drafting of the new law requiring mandatory local mtpl for all vehicles registered in georgia. healthcare services business spent a total of gel 89.3 million in 2017 on capital expenditures, primarily on the extensive renovations of deka and tbilisi referral (formerly sunstone) hospitals, as well as enhancing the service mix and introducing new services to cater for previously unmet patient needs. skills and experience: in 2013, mr breach co-founded gemsstock limited, a uk fca-regulated fund manager, where he also serves as an executive director. prior to ge capital, mr bradley held senior executive positions at manufacturers hanover trust (now part of jp morgan) and dollar dry dock bank. 80 annual report 2017 bgeo group plc bgeo group executive management experienced leadership who deliver our strategy avto namicheishvili group general counsel mr namicheishvili was appointed as general counsel of jsc bgeo group in september 2015. he previously served as deputy ceo (legal) of the bank since july 2008, prior to which he served as the bank’s general counsel from march 2007. before joining the bank, mr namicheishvili was a partner at begiashvili & co. limited, a leading georgian law firm, where he acted as external legal advisor for bank of georgia from 2004. he received his undergraduate degrees in law and international economic relations from tbilisi state university and a graduate degree (llm) in international business law from central european university, hungary. before joining aldagi, mr gamkrelidze served as ceo of joint stock company my family clinic from october 2005 to october 2007. prior to that, he served as a consultant at primary healthcare development project (a world bank project) and worked on the development of pharmaceutical policy and regulation in georgia. a full formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the board can be found on our website, at reserved-for-the-board. each non-executive director has an ongoing obligation to inform the board of any circumstances which could impair his or her independence. as mentioned earlier in this report, the board nomination committee is responsible for both director and executive management succession planning. similarly, we are clear that diversity of outlook and approach, while inevitably being difficult to measure, may be equally as important. we have also increased our maternity leave benefits and now provide a one-off bonus for newborn or adopted children. we also reviewed and monitored management’s responsiveness to the corrective measures through follow-up reports provided by internal audit. in particular, we have developed a whistleblowing policy which allows staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business practices. we keep this policy under review and receive regular updates from management as to any issues raised by employees. as reported last year, part of our strategy to achieve a 20%+ return on equity in the banking business included enhancing an already prudent risk management process. the georgian government’s de-dollarisaton initiatives and our ability to attract local currency funding have been primary drivers of this. our directors’ remuneration policy has again been included in this report (set out on pages 105 to 111) for the purposes of clarity and transparency. in the interest of transparency, such transactions entered into by our sole executive director, mr gilauri, are described below. these key principles have remained the same since 2010. our simple and strategically aligned remuneration structure means that executive directors are completely focused on delivering shareholder value. • performance-based remuneration is awarded entirely in the form of nil-cost options over bgeo shares which are deferred (no cash bonus). our retention rate of employees is high and in 2017 the survey also confirmed that we remain a competitive employer. • relocation support for an incoming executive director and, where relevant, his or her family may be provided depending on the individual’s circumstances. the directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are kept for inspection by shareholders at bgeo’s registered office. if mr gilauri’s service agreement expires and: (i) is not renewed upon substantially similar terms, or (ii) he does not accept a new service agreement, but he continues as a member of the bgeo and/or jsc bgeo group board, 50% of his unvested shares vest immediately and the remaining 50% shall continue to vest as normal. further malus applies to discretionary deferred shares if it is determined that there was a material misstatement in the financial results. in accordance with a request issued by bgeo, sanne fiduciary services limited has waived its right to receive any dividends. as with any major new accounting standard, there is a risk that the group does not apply ifrs 15 appropriately. although the valuations are performed by appropriately qualified valuers, there remains a risk that individual assets might be inappropriately valued. • the group operates across various industries some of which, including banking, insurance, public utilities and healthcare, are highly regulated environments. also, fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 32. fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. gains and losses resulting from these instruments are included in the consolidated income statement as net foreign currency gain (loss). valuations are performed once every three years, unless there is a sign of material change in fair values on the market. at each reporting date the group estimates a portion of accumulated points that is expected to be utilised by customers based on statistical data. equity instruments that are not held for trading may be irrevocably designated as fvoci, with no subsequent reclassification of gains or losses to the income statement. notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 161 annual report 2017 bgeo group plc strategic report overview strategic report strategy strategic report performance governance financial statements additional information financial statements 3. summary of selected significant accounting policies continued annual improvements 2014-2016 cycle ias 28 investments in associates and joint ventures – clarification that measuring investees at fair value through profit or loss is an investment-by-investment choice the amendments clarify that: • an entity that is a venture capital organisation, or other qualifying entity, may elect, at initial recognition on an investment-by-investment basis, to measure its investments in associates and joint ventures at fair value through profit or loss. the interpretation is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 january 2019, but certain transition reliefs are available. this assumption is also applied to demand deposits, savings accounts without a specific maturity and variable rate financial instruments. the demerger is subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 annual general meeting and the process is currently expected to complete by 30 june 2018. issue of usd 300 million notes due in 2024 by joint stock company georgia capital on 5 march 2018 jsc georgia capital successfully priced a us$ 300 million offering of 6.125% notes due march 2024 denominated in us dollars, which are expected to settle on 9 march 2018. notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 213 annual report 2017 bgeo group plc strategic report overview strategic report strategy strategic report performance governance financial statements additional information strategic report overview strategic report strategy strategic report performance governance financial statements additional information abbreviations adb asian development bank afs available-for-sale agm annual general meeting alco asset and liability committee aml anti-money laundering atms automated teller machines bnb belarusky narodny bank bstdb black sea trade and development bank cagr compounded annual growth rate car capital adequacy ratio dcfta deep and comprehensive free trade agreement deg deutsche investitions- und entwicklungsgesellschaft – german investment and development corporation dfi development finance institutions ebrd european bank for reconstruction and development eecp executives’ equity compensation plan efse european fund for southeast europe eib european investment bank eps earnings per share esms environmental and social risk management procedures eur euro ey ernst & young fdi foreign direct investment fmo financierings-maatschappij voor ontwikkelingslanden: the netherlands development bank frc financial reporting council gbp great british pound, national currency of the uk gdp gross domestic product gdrs global depositary receipts gel georgian lari or lari, national currency of georgia ghg georgia healthcare group glc georgian leasing company ias international accounting standards iasb international accounting standards board ifc international finance corporation ifrs international financial reporting standards imf international monetary fund irr internal rate of return jsc joint stock company kfw kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau kpis key performance indicators lse london stock exchange msme micro, small and medium enterprise nbg national bank of georgia nbrb national bank of the republic of belarus ngo non-governmental organisation nim net interest margin nmf not meaningful to present npls non-performing loans oecd organisation for economic co-operation and development ofac office of foreign assets control p&c property & casualty plc public limited company pos point of sale roaa return on average assets roae return on average equity smes small and medium size enterprises tsr total shareholder return uk united kingdom us$ dollar, national currency of the united states of america var value at risk wacc weighted average cost of capital wm wealth management 214 annual report 2017 bgeo group plc glossary alternative performance measures (apms) in this annual report the management uses various apms, which they believe provide additional useful information for understanding the financial performance of the group.