telephony services are either charged out via all-inclusive call packages, or on a ‘pay as you go’ (payg) per minute basis. these service fees facilitate effective on-boarding, which in turn leads to higher levels of user adoption and a demonstrably faster return on investment for customers. this presents a significant opportunity for the group as bullhorn has recently announced acquisitions which will significantly add to their global footprint. this trend is particularly marked within the recruitment and staffing sector with several new key accounts growing rapidly, making inroads into our top 10 customer list. it should be noted however, that their enhanced purchasing power with often larger and longer commercial terms being negotiated has had a slight adverse impact on overall average recurring revenue per user. cloudcall group plc 2017 annual report and financial statements strategic report 8 cloudcall group plc registered number: 05509873 resource limitations were also being keenly felt in product development, where for much of the year a significant portion of our software development resource was focussed on rebuilding our core infrastructure into a robust, multi-channel communications platform that would enable us to scale more quickly in 2018. this exercise naturally restricted our ability to launch new revenue impacting products and services in 2017. an improved platform to facilitate growth driven largely by the millennial generation, there is an underlying shift from the more traditional methods of communication towards texting and instant messaging. continuing with this approach, would have necessitated building bespoke iterations of any new feature, such as sms or messaging, for each supported crm integration. now that this fundamental architectural change has been made, we are able to move forward at a much faster pace. it should be noted, that periods of investment to facilitate further growth will temporarily increase cash burn in the short term. the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. on 24 october 2017, 2,457,774 ordinary shares were issued for cash at a price of 143.5 pence per share to fund further development and working capital in the group. on 8 december 2017, 1,505,226 ordinary shares were issued for cash at a price of 143.5 pence per share to fund further development and working capital in the group.