Annual Report 201 7 Strategic Report   What we do Contents Strategic Report Capturing the value of the network 1 Financial Highlights 2 Chairman’s Statement 3 Q&A with Interim Group Chief Executive 4 Our Operations 6 Our Markets 8 Business Model 10 Strategy 12 Measuring Success 13 Flight Support   • Signature Flight Support 14 Aftermarket Services  • Ontic 16 • Engine Repair & Overhaul (ER0) 18 Managing Our Risks 20 Corporate Responsibility 24 Our Markets in 2017 30 Group Finance Director’s Review 31 Financial Matters 34 Flight Support 2017 Performance 37  • Signature Flight Support 2017 Performance 38 Aftermarket Services 2017 Performance 39 • Ontic 2017 Performance 40 • Engine Repair & Overhaul 2017 Performance 41 Directors’ Report Corporate Governance Report 42 Board of Directors and Executive Management 44 Directors’ Remuneration Report 56 Going Concern and Viability Statement 85 Additional Disclosures 86 Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 88 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report 89 Consolidated Income Statement 95 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 96 Consolidated Balance Sheet 97 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 98 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 99 Accounting Policies of the Group 100 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 107 Company Balance Sheet 155 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 156 Accounting Policies of the Company 157 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 159 Subsidiaries and Related Undertakings 166 Five Year Summary 173 Alternative Performance Measures 174  Shareholder Information  179 BBA Aviation plc is a market-leading, global  aviation support and aftermarket services  provider , primarily focused on servicing the  Business and General Aviation (B&GA) market. We have  partnered with other strategic aviation players to combine expertise on  technology enabled means of global flight planning. We have started to capture the value of Signature’s  unique network and Ontic is performing very well. Recent investments at Signature are all focused on delivering  continued market outperformance in terms of our earnings growth. I am extremely proud of our people – they  have truly risen to the challenge and delivered in what has been a  very busy year. While principally  focused on B&GA, Engine Repair & Overhaul (ERO) also provides  services to regional commercial operators flying with engines in the  sub-20,000 lb thrust category. Worldwide there are more than  21,000 jets, 15,000 turboprops and 24,000 turbine civil helicopters  in operation classified as B&GA aircraft. Signature primarily provides  flight support together with line maintenance services, through the  TECHNICAir™ brand, to business and private aircraft in this segment. B&GA travel is driven by corporate  confidence and wealth creation, with a long-term through-cycle  correlation to US GDP . Strategic Report   Aftermarket Services 19 A Dallas Airmotive technician inspects  wiring configuration for a Rolls Royce  Tay engine preparing for test Key facts 22% 2017 Group revenue 17 17 locations >60 More than 60 remote field  service personnel >2, 100 More than 2,100 turbine engines  processed annually Key services •  Full engine overhauls • Scheduled engine repairs • On-wing in-field repairs • Aircraft-on-Ground (AOG) support • Engine accessory parts •  Component repair • Engine leasing What sets us apart • Intellectual property in the form of  authorisations for nearly 80% of the B&GA  fleet and over 65% of the rotorcraft fleet • Highly responsive service and support   in customer-relevant locations • In-field capability in the USA and across   the world • Integrated service offer to support  customer needs • Trusted partnerships with a global  network of more than 8,000 customers • Highly skilled workforce, technical  capability and efficient processes in   new state-of-the-art facilities • In-house business intelligence tools Strategic Report   Aftermarket Services 20 We are committed to effective risk   management to support delivery   of our strategic objectives. The Group has comprehensive training  programmes to ensure that employees are appropriately trained   in BBA Aviation’s ethics policies. Three to four days ahead of anticipated landfall, Signature’s  Hurricane Response Plan & Checklist was initiated, and daily   status calls commenced. This includes BBA Aviation’s  Equal Opportunities and Anti-Harassment Guidelines which   set out our approach to these matters. T wo female non-executive  directors joined BBA Aviation on 1 January 2018, meaning our  current Board is made up of three women and six men. Our local efforts are complemented by the BBA Aviation parent  company charitable giving programme which was launched in  2010. Employees across the world also pledged  money through three fundraising campaigns, raising nearly  $100,000 including matched funding from BBA Aviation. Business & General Aviation US B&GA monthly flight activity cycles were positive with growth every  month, but showing particular strength in the second half. The current US Air Force fleet is more than 25 years  old on average, with some platforms significantly older. Strategic Report  Our Markets in 2017 31 Group Finance   Director’ s Review  BBA Aviation has delivered another year   of strong growth. It signed an extended licence agreement with Fly Across at  Toluca International Airport in Mexico, just a 30-minute drive from  Santa Fe, the country’s financial and business district. This business has been substantially transitioned   into Ontic’s existing UK facility in Cheltenham over the course of 2017 . In 2018 we have also signed a first product licence  with Racal Acoustics, part of Esterline Corporation, for various military  and civil avionics products including cockpit communication control  systems. These acquisitions support Ontic’s strategy to deliver continued  profitable growth in mature avionics and electronics products with high  intellectual property content. Emma brings extensive aviation  experience from her various roles at  Heathrow Airport Holdings (formerly  BAA), where she is currently Executive  Director for Expansion. He  began his career with AirResearch  Aviation, followed by nine years at  Gulfstream in a variety of senior sales  and marketing roles. Her experience advising  clients across a range of industries  includes significant deals in the  aviation and aerospace sectors. In 2017, there was a comprehensive engagement programme on remuneration  with shareholders accounting for over half of the issued share capital. E2: Constructive use of general meetings The Company’s AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private  investors. These items relate to restructuring activities,  transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the amortisation of acquired  intangibles and material non-recurring events. The process analyses risk into eight types  covering strategic, operational, financial, people, compliance, governance,   hazard and an ‘other’ category, including unpredictable, although with hindsight,  often inevitable, events. Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services they performed during the  year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not impair their independence  or objectivity. Annual self-  assessment and/or audits are carried out at Company level against the Group  standards and business line procedures. Senior  managers’ performance and related financial incentives are tied in part to their  success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives. An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for each of the Group’s  reporting units. Shareholders will be aware that it is  very difficult for a UK listed company to implement US levels of equity compensation. Eighty percent of the potential   variable reward is provided in shares that have to be retained for five years. New Group Finance Director The Section 430(2B) statement published following Mike Powell’s resignation is set  out in full on page 74. These DSP awards vest in  equal instalments over three years but are not released until the   third anniversary of grant. 100% Overall level of satisfaction 100% David Crook Measure Weighting Performance assessment Level of performance achieved Transition to Group Finance Director and build  necessary stakeholder relationships 20% It is the Board’s view that David Crook has successfully stepped up   to the Group Finance Director role. 3 David Crook’s awards were granted before he became an executive director but are included in this table to provide shareholders with full information. Simon’s 2015  LTIP and DBP awards will vest at the normal time while he is still an employee. No individual is directly involved in the determination  of, or votes on, any matter relating to their own remuneration. 75 Directors’ Report Directors’ Remuneration Report Section 430(2B) statement relating to Simon Pryce 1 July 2017 Following Simon Pryce stepping down as CEO from 30 June 2017, he will continue to remain an employee for the duration of his garden leave period until 5 June 2018,   during which period he will receive his current salary, benefits and pension contribution. Awards under these plans vest in equal tranches over a three-year period with the risk of forfeiture ceasing at each vesting date. Maximum opportunity Up to 25% of base salary per annum as a cash payment or employer contribution into the pension scheme for current executive directors. An award is made up of conditional shares that will be delivered based on the Company’s operating profit, performance against strategic  objectives and subject to continuing employment. Should the Committee  determine that one or more targets are commercially sensitive, these will be disclosed in subsequent years’ remuneration reports once commercial sensitivity ceases to  apply. Calculated on a contractual basis and where the pay in lieu of notice  clause is invoked, an amount up to one year’s accrued benefits. In addition, BBA Aviation plc has US private placement (“USPP”) obligations of $500  million senior notes with various maturity dates between 2018 and 2026. On 31 May 2017, Mike Powell stepped down from the Board as Finance  Director and was replaced by David Crook. On 30 June 2017, Simon Pryce retired  from the Board and Wayne Edmunds was appointed as Interim Group Chief  Executive. These include  “All Hands Briefings”, staff forums, and meetings with trade unions that take place  throughout the year. The visits will also be used to review audit working papers  and attend key meetings with local management. Following a competitive tender process, we were appointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2014 and  subsequent financial periods. The review led to an impairment loss of $15.7 million that has been recognised within exceptional and other items in 2017. The extent to which these assumptions affect  each principal CGU with a significant level of goodwill are described below. The current US Air Force fleet is more than 25 years old on average, with some platforms significantly older. Sensitivity analysis Both the ERO CGUs, Dallas Airmotive (DAI) and H&S Aviation (H+S), recognised impairments in 2016, see below. In relation to ASIG CGUs, the operations were held for sale at 31 December 2016 and subsequently have been sold. The Group’s policy on credit risk relating to cash and derivative financial instruments is disclosed in note 17. Borrowings 2017  $m 2016  $m Bank overdrafts 4.0 1.0 Bank loans 813.3 1,036.2 Loan notes 502.2 507.3 Other loans 3.3 3.2 1,322.8 1,547.7 The borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year 124.2 1.0 In the second year 369.3 121.8 In the third to fifth years inclusive 619.6 1,214.4 After five years 209.7 210.5 1,322.8 1,547.7 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown within current liabilities) (124.2) (1.0) Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1,198.6 1,546.7 Current year bank loans and loan notes are stated after their respective transaction costs and related amortisation. The fair value  of derivative financial instruments is subsequently calculated using discounted cash flow techniques or other appropriate pricing models. This limit gives a maximum permitted amount of cash and derivatives that can  be held or undertaken with each counterparty. Sales to customers are settled in a number of different ways  including cash, credit cards, cheques and electronic payment methods. The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these   financial statements. Holding 100% Avenida Professor Magalhães Penido, 120, Loja 1, São Luiz, CEP 31270-700, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais Dallas Airmotive Manutenção de Motores Aeronáuticos Ltda. A reconciliation from these adjusted performance measures  to the nearest measure prepared in accordance with IFRS is presented below. In addition, a reconciliation from net  assets, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to invested capital for ROIC, is set out below. It is also a single  measure that can be used to assess both the Group’s cash position and its indebtedness. Shareholder Information 180 Shareholder Information – continued Warning to shareholders – boiler room share scams Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent,  or offered an inflated price for shares that investors already own.