there are a number of ongoing secular drivers for the market which give us confidence in its sustained long-term growth. on the other hand, we have seen a rise in competition from new business models which provide customers with increased choice and alternative ways to order delivered food. while all our analysis shows that pizza continues to be the most cost-effective way of feeding a family with delivered food, the pizza market model of higher menu prices and big promotional discounts can make it harder to compare with other cuisines in value terms and may affect value perception as a result. we have also seen a tighter labour market, created by high levels of employment and increased demand for delivery drivers from the new entrants described above. our franchisees also differentiate themselves from delivery service companies by offering full employment terms to drivers rather than flexible contracts. we expect food inflation to continue into 2018. milk prices per litre 31.39p 2017 2016 2015 2014 31.39 22.75 25.65 34.15 strategic report domino’s pizza group plc annual report & accounts 2017 08 overview it has been a year of excellent operational and strategic development for domino’s pizza group, with continued organic growth in established markets enhanced by an increasing presence in a number of newer markets. we believe pizza to be the best value delivered food, but it is not always perceived that way by customers. these include our chipotle pulled pork pizza and a chilli cheese stuffed crust, both of which have been very popular with customers. franchisees meet the cost of new store openings, which enables us to grow our reach with limited capital intensity. our franchisees benefit from the huge scale and logistics advantages we provide – giving cost economics that their competitors are not able to replicate. strategic report domino’s pizza group plc annual report & accounts 2017 16 introduction in this section i cover all the financial aspects of the business – looking not only at performance but also at other significant value drivers such as capital allocation and structure, and return on capital employed. however, this has little bearing on the system sales operating margin, which tends to iron out food price volatility. most of our costs are variable, so we do not typically experience significant operating leverage relative to system sales performance. systems sales does not represent revenue attributable to domino’s as it is derived mainly from stores owned by franchisees. potential impact high probability medium mitigation open and transparent relationships with multi-site franchisees are managed at senior levels of the group. potential impact medium probability low mitigation management keeps consumers’ purchasing preferences under continual review and adjusts menus in response to these. potential impact high probability low mitigation suppliers who are selected through competitive tendering and appropriate due diligence processes supply the group under long-term contracts. we generally recommend about three slices per person and continue to offer delight cheese with a third less fat than standard mozzarella. we also have an ingredients bible listing any additives included in our products to help customers understand why they are present. • all new products must follow strict nutritional criteria to ensure that they meet government guidelines on salt, sugar, calories and portion sizing. gender diversity following business acquisitions, during the year we welcomed over 2,000 colleagues from norway, iceland and sweden into domino’s pizza group. the majority of her executive career was spent at ge capital and vodafone, where she held various senior marketing roles. our aim is to maintain a sustainable business model which creates value for shareholders and benefits the group’s wider stakeholders. 4. formally check on effectiveness the board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance in each year. in addition, our brokers are invited to provide an independent view on matters of strategic importance such as potential acquisitions and share buybacks. an explanatory circular containing the notice of meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days beforehand, with separate votes being offered on each substantive issue. an important factor in achieving this effectiveness is drawing members from a range of backgrounds, which has been shown to help avoid “group think”. shareholder dialogue would take place, as appropriate, should there be any material change of emphasis in relation to current practices. the company also offers an hmrc‑ registered savings ‑ related share option scheme for all uk ‑ based employees with more than six months’ service, including executive directors. service contracts are normally entered into on a rolling basis, with notice periods given by the employing company limited to 12 months or less. corporate governance domino’s pizza group plc annual report & accounts 2017 54 remuneration policy report continued service contracts and policy on exit continued david wild, the chief executive officer, has a rolling contract dated 30 april 2014. rachel osborne, the chief financial officer, has a rolling contract dated 10 october 2016. both executives’ contracts are terminable on six months’ notice from either party and include payment in lieu of notice provisions as per the policy detailed on page 53. payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable. these statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such forward ‑ looking information. signed on behalf of the board david wild chief executive officer 7 march 2018 statement of directors’ responsibilities corporate governance financial statements strategic report annual report & accounts 2017 domino’s pizza group plc 69 basis for opinion we conducted our audit in accordance with international standards on auditing (uk) (isas (uk)) and applicable law. financial statements domino’s pizza group plc annual report & accounts 2017 76 responsibilities of directors continued explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud continued • based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations. when significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the group depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. ifrs 16, replacing ias 17, provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases. an initial assessment indicates that the adoption of ifrs 9 will not have a material impact on its consolidated results and financial position. on adoption of ifrs 9 this has been assessed as a derivative instrument with subsequent changes in fair value recognised through profit or loss. total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, including loan costs related to finance for franchisee capital development reported within cost of sales, is £1.9m (2016: £1.2m). corporate governance financial statements strategic report annual report & accounts 2017 domino’s pizza group plc 111 corporate governance financial statements strategic report 24. financial liabilities at 31 december 2017 £m at 25 december 2016 £m current current instalments due on other loans 0.2 0.6 current instalments due on finance leases 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.7 gross put option liabilities 5.6 — 6.2 0.7 share buyback obligations 18.3 10.0 24.5 10.7 non-current bank revolving facility 113.9 56.7 non-current instalments due on other loans 3.7 0.3 gross put option liabilities 34.7 — 152.3 57.0 banking facilities at 31 december 2017 the group had a total of £359.5m (2016: £180.0m) of banking facilities, of which £241.3m (2016: £118.3m) was undrawn. the group has access to a £350.0m syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in december 2022 with an option of two further one-year extensions. the goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature. the goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature. the goodwill recognised above includes certain intangible assets that cannot be separately identified and measured due to their nature. how to avoid investment and pension scams reject unexpected offers • scammers usually cold call, but contact can also come by email, post, word of mouth or at a seminar. the registrars provide an online share dealing service for those who are not seeking advice on buying or selling, available at www.selftrade.co.uk.