we create an environment where everyone can be at home and make the choices that are right for them. we also support the unite foundation, which provides accommodation scholarships to young people who have been in care or are estranged from their families. read more about what makes us different on p06 environmental, social impact and governance being a responsible business is central to everything we do at unite. with more young people choosing to continue their education and investment in themselves, there has been a 35-year period of growing student numbers throughout the country. most uk universities offer an accommodation guarantee for first year and international students, but even this is a challenge with current beds available. in many cases, they are increasingly looking at established accommodation providers as long-term partners with, for example, extended nominations agreements or strategic partnerships involving their own student housing estate. in parallel with these developments, changes beyond the world of higher education are also having an impact on student accommodation. we continuously work to align this portfolio with mid- and upper-tier universities, where demand for higher education is greatest. read more about our properties on p36 quality people we aim to create an environment that is supportive but allows students the independence they want. we are, in addition, currently rolling out a programme of student ambassadors to provide additional peer-to-peer support for our residents. nearly 70 per cent of our nominated beds are now covered by multi-year contracted agreements with occupancy and rental growth commitments. we support those who need it, whether that be raising £272,000 for the british heart foundation, or through employee volunteering on away days. we consider community needs in the development of new buildings, for example by prohibiting cars on site or adding retail facilities to a planning proposal. we support those who need it, whether that be raising £272,000 for the british heart foundation, or through employee volunteering on away days. we consider community needs in the development of new buildings, for example by prohibiting cars on site or adding retail facilities to a planning proposal. universities also increasingly recognise the importance of accommodation to their overall student experience and seek long-term trusted partners like unite. the key benefits of nominations agreements for unite include: - guaranteed rent through the occupancy guarantee and rent review mechanism - deepening our relationships with universities as we work closely and become a preferred partner - allowing us to identify further partnership opportunities much earlier than our competitors. financial performance has again been strong, with a total accounting return of 14% and growth in epra earnings, up 12% to £70.5 million. we believe that our focus on these institutions is the best strategy for driving continued high levels of occupancy and rental growth. the initial development returns on these university-backed schemes are 6–7%, around 100 basis points lower than a scheme where unite takes full letting and rental growth risk. 4 board searching externally for best practice engaging with senior leaders in the he sector as well external technical experts. 5 external experts recruiting expert advice on key issues such as fire safety following grenfell tower and information technology ahead of gdpr introduction. this is based on detailed three-year strategic/financial projections (with related scenario planning) and rolls forward for a further two years using more generic assumptions. read more in the financial review on p42 our risk management framework strategic report corporate governance financial statements other information 27 the unite group plc annual report and accounts 2017 principal risks and uncertainties market risks 1. demand reduction (driven by government policy or other macro events) possible events - brexit impacting numbers of eu students coming to study in the uk - changes in government policy on higher education funding - immigration policy changes affecting international student numbers and behaviour. whatever the terms of brexit – “hard” or “soft” – its complexity is very time-consuming, resulting in distractions from other policy initiatives. read more about asset disposals on p41 - customer satisfaction continues at high levels supporting rental growth and our portfolio value. adverse interest-rate movements possible events - unite breaches a loan covenant or fails to replace debt on expiry - interest rate increase. these savings mean that we are on track to deliver our overhead efficiency target in 2018. recurring management fee income from joint ventures remained at £14.1 million (2016: £14.0 million), as a result of the valuation growth of assets under management in usaf and lsav offset by disposal activity. building on this and our unique insight into student life, we introduced some significant enhancements to our service with a range of new digital services, including uchat, which provides the opportunity for students to meet their flatmates before arriving at university and logged over 80,000 messages in the first three months of operation. both of these developments are supported by university partners, and we have already signed a 25-year nominations agreement on cowley. returns on potential new direct-let projects in london still remain below our hurdle rate of 7 .0% due principally to higher alternative use values for prospective sites and planning levies. total completed value £m total development costs £m capex in period £m capex remaining £m forecast nav remaining £m forecast yield on cost % 2018 completions newgate street newcastle 575 40 37 11 18 5 8.0% brunel house bristol 246 30 22 3 8 2 8.5% chaucer house portsmouth 484 41 33 15 11 3 8.0% st vincent’s sheffield 598 49 38 16 21 4 8.2% international house birmingham 586 50 38 23 14 5 8.0% 2019 completions skelhorne liverpool 1,085 96 74 11 49 13 8.0% 2020 completions tower north leeds 1,019 107 83 1 82 24 8.0% constitution street aberdeen 600 50 42 0 35 3 8.4% new wakefield street manchester 603 76 56 12 44 11 8.2% old bri 1 bristol 751 98 79 2 61 20 8.4% total (wholly owned) 6,547 637 501 95 343 91 8.1% 1 subject to obtaining planning consent strategic report corporate governance financial statements other information 39 the unite group plc annual report and accounts 2017 property review continued secured forward-fund pipeline (usaf) usaf completed two forward-fund assets in 2017 , adding new operational beds in oxford and edinburgh. in 2018, we expect net debt to increase as capital expenditure on investment and development activity will exceed anticipated asset disposals. this training ensures that everyone at unite understands their role in delivering on our ongoing commitment to diversity, equality and inclusion. working with a single waste-management provider will deliver improvements in consistency and coverage of recycling provision across our estate. in its first year of partnership, these donations have raised more than £272,000, providing enough funding for a two-year research programme into overcoming heart disease. this new centre, located at our stapleton house building, is the culmination of a partnership between unite students and islington council. additional fire safety training is being carried out across all our teams, again building on the lessons learned from grenfell. from an operational perspective, both our customer satisfaction and higher education trust scores increased this year, leaving the group well placed to achieve its stretching three-year targets in these areas. these awards were similarly based on eps, tar and tsr outperformance of the ftse 350 real estate ‘super sector’ index. performance is assessed on an annual basis, as measured against specific objectives set at the start of each year. in 2017 , kepler provided independent advice, including updates on the external remuneration environment and performance testing for long-term incentive plans. 90 the unite group plc annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance statement vesting of 2017 awards is dependent on three equally weighted measures over a three-year performance period: total accounting return per share, earnings per share and tsr outperformance of the ftse 350 real estate ‘super sector’ index. the group uses epra earnings and nav movement as key comparable indicators across other real estate companies in europe. as a result, no deferred tax provision has been recognised at the balance sheet date in respect of property assets (revaluation and capital allowances). b) trade receivables the group’s customers can be split into two groups – (i) students (individuals) and (ii) commercial organisations including universities. the group has strong working relationships with its joint venture partners and therefore views this as a low credit risk balance. gross financing costs this includes all interest paid by the group, including those capitalised into developments and operating lease rentals.