following concern expressed by some customers, during 2017 we carried out a review of historic lease structures and, in particular, ten-year doubling ground rent clauses, which we had stopped using on new developments from late 2011. whilst taylor wimpey implemented these leases in good faith and the terms were clearly set out in the relevant leases, it was clear from our review that the impact of these doubling rent review clauses was causing some of our customers understandable concern, particularly from a mortgageability and saleability perspective. perhaps more importantly, it also identified areas, such as better collaboration between some functions, where further work is needed and we will of course prioritise these areas in 2018. as part of the government’s welcomed employee voice initiative, during 2017 we established our national employee forum (nef) with elected representatives from across the business. help to buy remains a popular purchasing tool for our customers, and the new build housing market more widely. through 2017, demand for new build housing has remained robust supported by healthy employment trends, a competitive mortgage market and the government’s help to buy scheme. our project 2020 design competition in partnership with the royal institute of british architects (riba) attracted over 100 entries from 14 different countries. on sites where there are tall buildings with aluminium composite material cladding, we have sought advice from independent fire safety experts, and, where required, have put in place additional measures to ensure that the buildings are fully compliant with the government’s guidance on interim fire safety measures. there is nothing more important to us than providing a safe place in which our employees and subcontractors can work. we have a relentless focus on value at every stage of our business model and this is ingrained into the taylor wimpey mindset. we employ dedicated land teams in each of our 24 regional businesses, who use their expertise and local knowledge to identify potential high-quality, sustainable sites. during the year, and as previously announced, we added a further site to our major developments portfolio of large scale land opportunities. the land was acquired with an outline planning permission for 535 new homes of which 35% is to be affordable housing. our approach goes well beyond regulatory requirements, with engagement starting before we submit a planning application and continuing throughout the development process. on sites where there are tall buildings with aluminium composite material cladding, we have sought advice from independent fire safety experts, and, where required, have put in place additional measures to ensure that the buildings are fully compliant with the government’s guidance on interim fire safety measures. during peak periods, taylor wimpey logistics pick, package and dispatch up to 100,000 items in 1,500 build packs on around 60 lorries per week. however, we also work with many smaller businesses, providing labour and services, including companies that are local to our development sites. for example, following our design competition with the riba, we will be building a series of prototype homes incorporating sustainable build technologies and off-site production techniques. the government has recently launched a consultation on leasehold properties, and this may result in changes to future ground rent structures. on sites where there are tall buildings with aluminium composite material cladding, we sought advice from independent fire safety experts, and, where required, have put in place additional measures to ensure that the buildings are fully compliant with the government’s guidance on interim fire safety measures. where cil charges are not in place, there could be an impact on gaining planning consent or judicial review challenge. limited availability of good-quality land at an attractive price throughout the housing cycle can lead to significant and unsustainable competition. the assessment considers sensitivity analysis on a series of realistically possible, but severe and prolonged, changes to principal assumptions. return on net operating assets** increased by 1.7 percentage points to 32.4% (2016: 30.7%), mainly reflecting improved profitability while maintaining balance sheet discipline. during 2017, a medically underwritten mortality study (mums) was commissioned in addition to using postcode analysis data which has historically formed the basis of member life expectancy. 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 £m contribution to local communities employment pension contributions taxes net investment in land and wip debt servicing dividends 2014 2015 2016 2017 for our viability statement see page 41. james jordan group legal director and company secretary date of appointment joined july 2011 skills & experience james, a solicitor, was previously group company secretary and general counsel of george wimpey plc from february 2002 until july 2007, when, following the merger, he was appointed to the same position with taylor wimpey plc. external appointments james is a trustee of the tennis foundation charity where he also chairs their audit and remuneration committees. previously, angela was a member of parliament from 1992 to 1997, including two years as the economic secretary at hm treasury. – made good progress towards achieving our strategy for improving diversity and inclusivity at all levels throughout the group’s businesses. the board has put in place arrangements designed to facilitate contact with shareholders concerning business, governance, remuneration and other relevant topics. directors make every effort to attend all board and applicable committee meetings, as strongly evidenced by the exceptionally strong attendance records over many years. pete redfern, chief executive, has operational responsibility for delivering the company’s strategy in a profitable, safe and environmentally responsible manner. accordingly, there is a code of business conduct, which sets out the standard for individual dealings both internally and externally. for gwyn burr, who was appointed with effect from 1 february 2018, this evaluation took place as part of the appointment process. in addition, all new appointments and interests of directors are reported to the board for consideration or noting as appropriate. in addition, fees for eligible non-audit services are not to exceed 70% of the group audit fee, calculated on a rolling three-year basis. these reports outline internal audit’s opinion of the management control framework in place together with actions indicating improvements proposed or made as appropriate. we are also focusing upon recruiting individuals from a wider range of backgrounds, experience and industries at all levels. rob rowley stood down as chairman of the audit committee on 10 january 2018 and was succeeded in this position by humphrey singer. a specific focus of the company’s whistleblowing campaign is on diversity, encouraging employees to speak up against any inappropriate practices or behaviour. feedback was incredibly positive in terms of creating an environment where individuals could share personal challenges and development areas. salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure that they remain competitive with external market practices and are competitive when measured against ftse peers (other non-ﬁnancial companies of a similar size in terms of market capitalisation and other large uk housebuilders).there is no automatic entitlement to an increase each year. the sharesave plan and sip have standard terms under which all uk employees with at least three months’ service can participate. targets are set based on a sliding scale that takes account of internal planning and external market expectations for the company. for further details see employee involvement on page 96. the company also offers both sharesave and share incentive schemes to all eligible uk employees with more than three months’ service. tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with the company. where an executive director is considered by the remuneration committee to be a good leaver, deferred eis awards (shares) would vest. in line with recent practice and good governance, voting on all resolutions at this year’s agm will again be conducted by way of a poll. no person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. through 2017 our regional teams have been working with the competition winners openstudio, to develop their designs for use in three trial sites. we currently have limited control over our subcontractor base in terms of their size, growth, mobility, skills, training, recruitment and commitment. our intranet includes a wide range of employee information from human resources policies to advice for employees on sustainable living. chaired by tim betts, divisional managing director, the first nef meeting took place in october 2017, with topics discussed including customer service and business attire. during 2017, we also saw the launch of our first e-learning modules, which can be accessed via any pc, laptop tablet or mobile phone. – state whether applicable uk accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. where differences fell outsid e of an acceptable threshold, we performed corroborative inquir ies with management and obtained evidence supporting the variance. this provision has multiple components that relate to discussions with a number of parties including freeholders and individual customers. this provision has multiple components that relate to discussions with a number of parties including freeholders and individual customers. trade receivables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. trade receivables on extended terms, particularly in respect of land, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. as actual changes in inflation, growth, yields and investment returns may differ from those assumed, this is a key source of esti mation uncertainty within the financial statements. in additi on, when buying their taylor wimpey property, all customers received independent legal ad vice as part of the standard conveyancing process. in line w ith normal practice the relevant freehold reversions have been sold to a number of third parties over several years. 123 taylor wimpey plc annual report and accounts 2017 16. other financial assets continued the embedded derivative fair value movement is established by reference to a published national house price index. other than th e natural hedge provided by foreign currency borrowings, the transl ation risk of income is not hedged using derivatives. mortgage receivables, including shared equity loans, are in connection with the various historical promotion schemes to support sales on a selective basis. however, £40 million per annum of cash contributions are only required whilst the scheme remains in a technical provisions deficit position. the ifric 14 deficit at 31 december 2017 does not include any value in respect of this bullet payment as mo delling undertaken by an independent actuary indicates that the scheme is expected to be fully funded by 2028 and therefore no bullet payment is expecte d to be required. in addition to the investments outlined above, the scheme’s strategy is well diversified through its exposure to a range of ass et classes, including protected equities, commercial real estate debt, direct loans, hedge funds, government bonds and a broad spectrum of corporate bonds and other fixed income exposures. excludin g these amounts, approximately 76% of assets are managed eithe r in segregated accounts or daily/weekly dealt pooled funds and can th erefore be realised within a few business days under normal ma rket conditions. onerous leases and vacant property costs included in this provision are expected to be utilised within approximately five years. onerous leases and vacant property costs included in this provision are expected to be utilised within approximately five years. however, £40.0 million per annum of cash contributions are only required whilst the scheme remains in a technical provisions deficit whic h will be tested quarterly. any liability or credit in respect of gr oup relief in lieu of current tax is also calculated using corporation tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date unless a different rate (including a nil rate) has been agreed within the group. any liability or credit in respect of gr oup relief in lieu of current tax is also calculated using corporation tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date unless a different rate (including a nil rate) has been agreed within the group. 4. to be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by link asset services at pxs 1, 34 beckenham road, beckenham, kent, br3 4zf, or, if you want to use an envelope the address to use is freepost pxs, 34 beckenham road, br3 9za or, if you prefer, electronically via the internet at www.signalshares.com or, if you are a member of crest, via the service provided by euroclear uk and ireland limited at the electronic address provided in note 9, in each case no later than 11:00 am on 24 april 2018. please note that all forms of proxy received after this time will be void. latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2018 annual general meeting: 11:00 am on 24 april 2018. group legal director and company secretary and registered office james jordan gate house turnpike road high wycombe buckinghamshire hp12 3nr tel: +44 (0)1494 558323 fax: +44 (0)1494 885663 e-mail: james.jordan@taylorwimpey.com registrar for any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details of shareholder services, please contact: link asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu e-mail: enquiries@linkgroup.co.uk tel: 0871 664 0300 (uk) tel: +44 (0) 371 664 0300 (from overseas) calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company’s access charge.