gresham technologies plc annual financial report 2017 07 strategic report outlook we started 2018 with the clareti annuity stream up 24% year-on-year and, in the first quarter of 2018 so far, we have signed a further insurance broking business for ctc, a clareti adapter sale and several professional services engagements for delivery of software contracts won in late 2017 . using clareti, we have built a number of individual applications designed to address specific industry problems, providing enhanced value and greater marketability. the team operates as a global function, which enables us to make optimal use of resources and expertise from all locations. clareti-as-a-service (“caas”) is a stable offering and has delivered significant total cost of ownership reduction for our customers who have opted to deploy in gresham’s cloud. we will focus our product development activities on enhancements and new clareti applications designed to address data integrity issues. measuring our progress financial build a high-margin, recurring revenue stream based on term licence sales, subscriptions and cloud services. new senior hires have been added throughout the business (including hr, sales and marketing) which mitigates certain key person risks. these processes are overseen by gresham’s information security committee, which reports formally to the board at least every six months. all three clients selected ctc following robust tender processes where gresham was pitched head-to-head with incumbents and other competitors. in common with many of our customer contracts, we also agreed a framework for licence growth over time as more use cases are identified across their business. we also won two further uk-based hedge fund clients during the year and our recent recognition for being the “most innovative technology firm” in hedge funds by hfm in both their european and us awards is further evidence that our offering for alternative investment managers is particularly strong. in a relative short period, north america has grown to represent 25% of clareti arr and is also now pulling through demand for implementation services. throughout 2017 , we typically had around a dozen implementation projects and several pre-sale proofs of concept underway at any given point in time. we are pleased to have been able to support charities such as beyondblue, an australian charity offering support and raising awareness of mental health, and smart , a north american charity started by a doctor whose son suffers from spinal muscular atrophy, known personally by one of our team. gresham is guided by internationally proclaimed fundamental principles such as those set out in the united nations universal declaration of human rights. prior to mr a balchin’s appointment in may 2017 , the company did not comply with these provisions as it only had one independent non-executive director, namely ms i joss. retirement and re-election all directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first agm immediately following their appointment and thereafter are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years, or annually for any non-executive director who has served for more than nine years. at least once a year, we meet separately with the external auditor to discuss matters without executive management being present. for 2017 , the committee has continued to operate a simple remuneration structure made up of basic salary, performance-related bonuses, share options, benefits and pensions. as regards increases for 2018, the committee has assessed that chief executive basic pay should increase by 2.4% in line with other group employees. non-executive directors are not eligible for pensions, incentives, bonus or any similar payments other than normal out-of-pocket expenses incurred on behalf of the business. mr r grubb has a service agreement dated 18 may 2011, which is terminable by six months’ rolling notice from either side. all director service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the company’s registered office, aldermary house, 10–15 queen street, london ec4n 1tx. the fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. pre-contract costs incurred subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder are capitalised onto the balance sheet under prepayments and accrued income. fair value of awards with a financial result-based performance target is determined by management using the black scholes pricing model. gresham technologies plc annual financial report 2017 80 financial statements notes to the financial statements continued 20. obligations under leases continued future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: land and buildings 2017 £’000 other 2017 £’000 total 2017 £’000 land and buildings 2016 £’000 other 2016 £’000 total 2016 £’000 not later than one year 295 — 295 304 — 304 after one but not more than five years 751 — 751 453 — 453 more than five years 61 — 61 — — — 1,107 — 1,107 757 — 757 operating lease agreements where the group is lessor the group has entered into commercial leases as lessor on australian and us properties. • property, plant and equipment – a significant element of the group’s liquidity is tied up in tangible fixed assets. a positive number indicates an increase in profit after taxation and other components of equity where sterling weakens against the respective currencies. fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. fair value of awards with a financial result-based performance target is determined by management using the black scholes pricing model.