the value we create investors strong returns from growth ahead of our end markets enabled by a clearly defined and well-executed strategy. the value we create investors strong returns from growth ahead of our end markets enabled by a clearly defined and well-executed strategy. the uk and france have said any ban would take place after 2040, while china has not set a specific date. the group has also expanded into adjacent markets, such as sand and aggregates, that have a more direct relationship to infrastructure-led demand. as consumption increases in emerging economies, there will also be additional demand for commodities supported by the group’s equipment. our response the group has developed a new technology strategy that incorporates how we will adapt and succeed using these emerging technologies. the uk and france have said any ban would take place after 2040, while china has not set a specific date. the group has also expanded into adjacent markets, such as sand and aggregates, that have a more direct relationship to infrastructure-led demand. as consumption increases in emerging economies, there will also be additional demand for commodities supported by the group’s equipment. our response the group has developed a new technology strategy that incorporates how we will adapt and succeed using these emerging technologies. that includes agreeing new key performance indicators to be delivered over the medium term, starting in 2018. they are: • improved sustainable engagement and organisational effectiveness • increased market share • improved percentage of revenues from new solutions • sustainably higher margins through the cycle these indicators will guide our short- to medium-term progress and will require excellent execution of our strategy, building on the good progress delivered in 2017. this time last year i set out our new ‘we are weir’ strategic framework. this approach helps embed weir even further into the operations of our customers and differentiates us more clearly from competitors. oil & gas also outperformed north american rig count growth, leveraging their key account management programme to build even closer relationships with leading oilfield services companies. as a result of previous reductions in fixed costs, the facility delivered excellent operating leverage that contributed to its overall performance. after a restructuring of its sales and marketing capability, the division is now clearly focused on capturing future growth opportunities. our medium-term key performance indicators are shown below: people improved sustainable engagement score and increased organisational effectiveness customers increased market share technology improved percentage of revenues from new solutions performance sustainably higher margins through cycle outlook for 2018 customers in our main markets are expected to increase investment in 2018 with global mining expenditure expected to increase after a prolonged downturn. increasing customer productivity overview part of the group’s strategy has been to extend into adjacent markets where we can leverage our technology leadership and materials science expertise. these include smart factories and advanced manufacturing, where we have already seen initial benefits from the 3d printing of some component parts. for example, by capturing vibration data on a mining screen, we can gain detailed insights into the equipment’s behaviour. strategy in action: performance utilising value chain excellence (vce) to deliver improved efficiencies for our customers and drive change across the organisation. by adopting lean manufacturing tools such as value stream mapping, ‘kaizens’ and a daily ‘war room’ for team meetings, they identified opportunities to increase productivity. flow control revenue increased by 4% on a constant currency basis to £365m (2016: £350m), with aftermarket revenues unchanged from the prior year and original equipment revenues up 7% driven by delivery of a large part of the legacy order book for downstream oil results summary continuing operations 1 £m 2017 2016 as reported constant currency 2 orders 2 2,395 1,989 n/a 20% revenue 2,356 1,845 28% 19% operating profit 3 292 214 36% 25% operating margin 3 12.4% 11 .6% +80bps +60bps net finance costs 3 (42) (44) 5% 2% profit before tax 3 250 170 47% 32% reported profit after tax 162 43 274% n/a cash from operations 4 221 293 -25% n/a net debt 843 835 -£8m n/a net debt / ebitda 5 2.5 2.8 11% n/a effective tax rate 23.9% 22.5% +140bps n/a earnings per share 3 86.7p 61 .2p 42% n/a dividend per share 44.0p 44.0p – n/a roce 6 10.4% 7 .5% +290bps n/a the financial review includes a mixture of gaap measures and those which have been derived from our reported results in order to provide a useful basis for measuring our operational performance. while overall mining capital spending was stable, sustaining expenditure increased by 5% as miners sought to optimise production from existing assets. while there was no significant new investment in oil sands projects, production increased overall, supporting demand for aftermarket spares and services. this close customer intimacy gave the division improved insight, allowing it to anticipate additional demand, particularly for integrated solutions that optimise production of existing assets. good progress was made globalising newer product lines such as the comminution offering and delta valves while new technology introductions included advanced spools for oil sands applications. the divisional workforce grew by approximately 1,000 with its main manufacturing facility in fort worth, texas, moving from one shift to three. this continuous-duty pump delivers a 17% reduction in total cost of ownership through reduced downtime as fewer backup pumps are required on site. short term margin dilution is acceptable in gaining market entry but over the cycle we aim for top quartile operating margins and returns on capital. impact on strategy why we think this is important up-to-date data allows us to make informed decisions about our business. otherwise, we are at risk of incurring unnecessary costs during downturns, and not maximising our potential for growth in buoyant markets. mark claffey stated: “i am proud of the ipswich plant employees who have embraced and actively participated in this safety process. this was followed by regular ceo briefings and the introduction of a direct ‘askjon’ email address via which employees can raise any issues they may have. further details of our people development programmes can be found at www.careers.weir these innovations were in addition to more established communications channels such as the group intranet and bulletin newsletter. jenny mcgeough manufacturing director, weir minerals netherlands we need to encourage and attract more women at all levels of the organisation. during 2017, we established #weirunitedindiversity, on yammer, which is being used by our employees to share knowledge, learning and best practice. weir’s own engineers are also working with primary engineer in schools where they have a presence, attending some of these sessions. along with internal briefings and updates, we have prepared a conflict minerals policy in order to ensure compliance as necessary. we strive to build close relationships in our communities by keeping local people informed about projects which might affect them. 66 the weir group plc annual report and financial statements 2017 seven sites within our oil & gas division were affected to varying degrees. non-executive directors clare chapman alan ferguson melanie gee mary jo jacobi barbara jeremiah professor sir jim mcdonald john mogford • contributing independent challenge and rigour. stage 2 interviews held with 22 individuals, namely: the chairman, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, senior independent director, all non-executive directors, company secretary and general counsel, all members of the group executive committee, group financial controller, head of internal audit, pwc audit partner, remuneration advisers ey and deloitte. as part of their inductions, both clare and barbara attended a briefing session with external legal counsel on directors’ duties. there are monitoring controls at operating company, regional, divisional and group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address underperforming areas. our work has focused on ensuring that these items were exceptional due to their size, nature and/or frequency, taking cognisance where appropriate of multi-year restructuring programmes. pwc also provided confirmation that management’s assumptions, calculation methodology and treatment of transitional credits as exceptional items were acceptable. restricted share awards do not have conventional performance conditions which might apply to an ltip, reflecting their different purpose and design. directors’ remuneration report continued our ltip outcomes have been ‘all or nothing’ the difficulty in forecasting commodity prices chart shows rolling 12 month average oil price (blue line). npbta current proposed 40% 50% 20% 20% 20% 20% 30% cash ﬂow/ working capital strategic order input personal there are no changes to bonus opportunities, which will remain at 150% (ceo) and 125% (cfo). clare chapman chair of the remuneration committee 28 february 2018 1. pbta is defined as continuing profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items, translated at 31 january 2017 average exchange rates. maximum award size significantly reduced by 50% from previous ltip award levels (the rationale for this discount is discussed in more detail in the next section): • ceo 125% of base salary • cfo 100% of base salary vesting phased over a five-year period, with vested shares released between five and seven years from grant. with restricted shares, executives are strongly incentivised to take actions that will enhance long-term performance rather than short-term shareholder value given the phased vesting and release profile. our ‘starting point’ for the conversion was to confirm that total compensation is positioned around median against similarly sized uk companies and therefore we were not embedding any excessive quantum. all financial measures are calibrated with payment on a straight line basis between threshold (up to 20% of maximum bonus payable) and stretch. leadership of value chain excellence, including procurement revised vce model developed and rolled out enabling businesses to deliver value-add improvements. role name title chairman and members clare chapman (from august 2017) melanie gee (to august 2017) alan ferguson mary jo jacobi barbara jeremiah (from august 2017) richard menell independent non-executive directors internal advisors charles berry jon stanton pauline lafferty (until july 2017) rosemary mcginness (from july 2017) christopher morgan geraldine pamphlett chairman of the board chief executive officer chief people officer chief people officer company secretary group head of reward and recognition committee’s external advisor deloitte adviser to committee internal advisors provided important information to the committee and attended meetings. we considered whether there were other significant costs or income which should have been included in exceptional items using our knowledge of the business. the group is organised into three operating divisions: minerals, oil & gas and flow control with additional centralised head office functions. management base these judgements on a combination of past experience, professional expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to each individual circumstance. iii) regular training is organised by the group in our key jurisdictions and encouraged elsewhere to ensure we maintain appropriate standards of technical competence. iv) all personnel involved in filing tax returns are encouraged to share knowledge and seek input on best practice across the group. bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances. this information, along with comparable gaap measurements, is useful to investors in providing a basis for measuring our operational performance. transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis, in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. there are certain intangible assets included in the £51.6m of goodwill recognised that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature. 154 the weir group plc annual report and financial statements 2017 14. impairment testing of goodwill & intangible assets with indefinite lives goodwill acquired through business combinations and intangible assets with indefinite lives have been allocated at acquisition to cash generating units (cgus) that are expected to benefit from the business combination. the group tests goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that they might be impaired. 159 the weir group plc annual report and financial statements 2017 strategic report corporate governance financial statements additional information notes to the group financial statements continued 20. interest-bearing loans & borrowings 2017 £m 2016 £m current bank overdrafts 0.1 1.2 short-term borrowings – 0.4 0.1 1.6 fixed-rate notes 94.0 – bank loans 0.6 – commercial paper 293.4 142.1 obligations under finance leases (note 27) 0.3 0.3 388.4 144.0 non-current bank loans – 31 .1 fixed-rate notes 738.7 917 .5 obligations under finance leases (note 27) 0.7 0.5 739.4 949.1 weighted average interest rate bank loans maturity interest basis 2017 % 2016 % 2017 £m 2016 £m revolving credit facility united states dollar variable rate loans 2021 us$ libor 1.09 1 .09 – 31 .0 other argentinian peso fixed-rate loan facilities 2019 fixed 18.18 18.18 – 0.1 united states dollar pre-shipment credit in foreign currency 2018 us$ libor 3.96 – 0.4 – indian rupee working capital loan facility 2018 fixed 9.20 – 0.2 – 0.6 31 .1 less: current instalments due on bank loans united states dollar pre-shipment credit in foreign currency 2018 us$ libor (0.4) – indian rupee working capital loan facility 2018 fixed (0.2) – non-current bank loans – 31 .1 weighted average interest rate commercial paper maturity interest basis 2017 % 2016 % 2017 £m 2016 £m commercial paper euro variable rate commercial paper 2018 eur libor 0.06 0.17 293.4 142.1 293.4 142.1 less: current instalments due on commercial paper euro variable rate commercial paper 2018 eur libor (293.4) (142.1) non-current commercial paper – – 160 the weir group plc annual report and financial statements 2017 the weighted average interest rates include an applicable margin over and above the interest basis. it is expected that all costs related to such claims will have been incurred within five years of the balance sheet date. the temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, aggregate to £1,971.9m (2016: £1,986.6m). as at 31 december 2017, the group had derivative financial instruments of £10.2m which were subject to master netting arrangements but not offset. exposures to those counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market view of a counterparty’s credit quality changes, adjusted as considered appropriate. international limited england and wales weir power & industrial – emerging markets britannia house huddersfield road elland west yorkshire hx5 9jr ordinary 100% pt kop surface products indonesia suite 701b 7th floor setiabudi atrium ji h.r. share scams are often run from ‘boiler rooms’ where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even non-existent shares.