We made more good progress against  our strategy in 2017 and it is particularly pleasing to see the strong  performance delivered by IPF Digital. I am pleased to say there has been  no significant operational disruption as a result of these changes and  agent feedback is supportive. If consumers have not dealt with us before, they may  choose to obtain a loan from our purely digital brands. Supporting people who are not well served by other  mainstream credit providers or excluded altogether comes  with higher risks and we understand that some of our home  credit customers will take a little bit longer than contractually  obliged or won’t fully repay their loans, and so we price our  loans to take this into account. Our  previous guidance, based on accounting standard IAS39, was that  we expected IPF Digital to deliver its maiden profit in 2018. In addition, we believe  that the Group return on equity (ROE) metric is a good measure of  overall returns for shareholders. IFRS 9 is an accounting change that has no impact on the business  model, credit quality, cash flows and economic value or returns. The policies  are designed to provide robust risk management, even in more  volatile financial markets and economic conditions within our  planning horizon. We maintain our Euro Medium Term Note programme as   the main platform for bond issuance across a range of currencies. Therefore, we do not expect fluctuations in the value of  sterling to have a major impact on our funding position. These have been considered within the time frame of three years which aligns with our viability  statement on page 43. In an environment of increasing  competition and broadening  customer choice, ensuring our  product meets customers’  needs is critical to  delivering growth. Objective We aim to generate shareholder  value through effective  management of tax while acting  as a good corporate citizen. Lead responsibility:   Chief Executive Officer Our change programme  encompasses a broad  technological remit and   we are rolling out mobile  technology applications  to agents. We strengthened our Group- level leadership team with the  appointment of a new Group HR  Director and Chief Legal Officer. We are working to ensure  compliance in all our European  markets with the new General  Data Protection Regulation,  which will be introduced  25 May 2018. Current  indicators suggest our markets  will deliver positive GDP growth,  low but increasing inflation and  subdued interest rates in 2018. In addition, we only engage executive search firms,  which have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender  diversity and best practice. I am pleased to say that Tony has agreed  and will put himself forward for re-election at our upcoming AGM. Tenure of directors As noted above, it is more than 10 years since Tony Hales was first  elected to the Board. It is recognised that any system can  provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against  material misstatement or loss. The Committee  requests additional presentations on key business areas as  necessary to supplement its understanding of control environments  in place. • Provision for uncertain tax positions: IPF operates in multiple  jurisdictions where the taxation treatment of transactions is not  always certain. This takes a best of breed approach  combining the latest third party products with our proprietary  product and loan engines built in house. Starting salary will be set in accordance with the approved  remuneration policy, based on a combination of market information,  internal relativities and individual experience. Gerard Ryan – Chief Executive Officer Category Objectives Results People Resource and build a high-performance senior  management team with capabilities linked to  delivering our Group strategy. In a challenging regulatory and commercial environment the  Group maintained adequate headroom on undrawn bank  facilities, alongside continued successful access to bond markets. Executive directors are required to retain half of any vested Company share scheme options until the  shareholding requirement is met. Other members of  management may attend meetings by invitation except when  matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed. If he/she holds an executive role in a FTSE 350  company, he/she should not hold more than two other material  non-executive directorships. Externally facilitated evaluation was last undertaken in late  2016, led by David Mensley of EquityCommunications Limited, who  has no other connection with IPF. In accordance with best corporate governance  practice, all directors will offer themselves for re-election again at   our AGM on 4 May 2018. It was, therefore,  pleasing that shareholders also overwhelmingly approved new  rules for equity incentive schemes, which cover a broad range  of employees in the organisation. Financial instruments are moved back to stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk . Where extreme macroeconomic scenarios are experienced, we will use management judgement to identify, quantify and apply any  required approach. IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer. It is not pract icable to provide a  reasonable estimate of the financial effect until this review has been completed. Financial instruments are moved back to stage 1 once they no longer meet the criteria for a significant increase in credit risk . Where extreme macroeconomic scenarios are experienced, we will use management judgement to identify, quantify and apply any  required approach. IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer. It is not pract icable to provide a  reasonable estimate of the financial effect until this review has been completed. Impairment is calculated using actuarial models wh ich use  historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount an d timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage. Impairment is calculated using actuarial models wh ich use  historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount an d timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage. Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value a re recognised  immediately within the income statement. Investments  are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. All items of  property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever ev ents or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value  may not be recoverable. All items of  property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever ev ents or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value  may not be recoverable. These estimates are considered and updated as required in each reporting period to reflect the c ustomer  loan portfolio’s expected performance. These estimates are considered and updated as required in each reporting period to reflect the c ustomer  loan portfolio’s expected performance. Segment analysis  Geographical segments  Group  Revenue  Impairment  Profit before taxation  2017 £M 2016  £M 2017   £M  2016   £M  2017  £M 2016  £M Home credit    Northern Europe  327.0 330.6 74.1 76.2 59.8 75.6 Southern Europe 177.7 170.8 17.0 35.2 54.5 40.3 Mexico 217.0 186.5 75.6 68.0 14.7 11.7 Slovakia and Lithuania – 10.8 (8.5) (12.0) 3.2 (7.4)  721.7 698.7 158.2 167.4 132.2 120.2 Digital 104.1 58.1 42.9 17.5 (11.7) (9.3) UK costs*  – – – – (14.9) (14.9) Total – continuing operations  825.8 756.8 201.1 184.9 105.6 96.0 Discontinued operations 3.7 6.6 2.6 2.6 (7.9) (3.4) Total  829.5 763.4 203.7 187.5 97.7 92.6 * Although UK costs are not classified as a separate segment in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’, they are shown sep arately above in order to  provide a reconciliation to profit before taxation. At 31 December 2017, there is £nil (2016: £nil) amount of tempor ary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred  tax liabilities have not been recognised. Management monitor credit quality using two key metrics: impair ment as a percentage of revenue and gross cash loss (‘GCL’)  development. Commentary on impairment as a percentage of revenue is set out in the operational review at both Group and segment  level. Management monitor credit quality using two key metrics: impair ment as a percentage of revenue and gross cash loss (‘GCL’)  development. Commentary on impairment as a percentage of revenue is set out in the operational review at both Group and segment  level. However, in the event that audits are ope ned, and similar  decisions are reached for each of these subsequent financial year s, further amounts of up to c. £123 million may be required to be funded  (including approximately £44 million for the 2010 and 2011 years on which audits have commenced). However, in the event that audits are ope ned, and similar  decisions are reached for each of these subsequent financial year s, further amounts of up to c. £123 million may be required to be funded  (including approximately £44 million for the 2010 and 2011 years on which audits have commenced). If interest rates across all markets increased by 200 basis points this would have the  following impact, net of existing hedging arrangements. Where forward  foreign exchange contracts have been entered into, they are desi gnated as cash flow hedges on specific future transactions. If interest rates across all markets increased by 200 basis points this would have the  following impact, net of existing hedging arrangements. Where forward  foreign exchange contracts have been entered into, they are desi gnated as cash flow hedges on specific future transactions. The level of expected future losses is generated on a weekly or monthly  basis by business line and geographical segment. Amounts receivable from customers are stated at amortised cost an d calculated in accordance with the Group’s accounting policie s.   Those amounts receivable from customers th at are neither past due nor impaired repres ent loans where no customer payments have   been missed and there is, therefore, no evidence to suggest that the credit quality is anything other than adequate. Risks arising from financial instruments continued  Impairment as a percentage of revenue for each geographical segment is shown below:  Group  2017  % 2016  % Northern Europe  22.7 23.0 Southern Europe 9.6 20.6 Mexico  34.8 36.5 Digital  41.2 30.1 The carrying value of amounts receivable from customers that would have been impaired had their terms not been renegotiated   is £nil (2016: £nil). Risks arising from financial instruments continued  Impairment as a percentage of revenue for each geographical segment is shown below:  Group  2017  % 2016  % Northern Europe  22.7 23.0 Southern Europe 9.6 20.6 Mexico  34.8 36.5 Digital  41.2 30.1 The carrying value of amounts receivable from customers that would have been impaired had their terms not been renegotiated   is £nil (2016: £nil). If life expec tancies had been  assumed to be one year greater for all members, the defined benefit obligation would increase by approximately £1.6 million. If life expec tancies had been  assumed to be one year greater for all members, the defined benefit obligation would increase by approximately £1.6 million. This measure is  presented to illustrate the change in amounts receivable from customers on  a consistent basis with revenue growth. For shareholders resident outside   the UK, we offer dividend payments via Link’s International Payment  Service to a number of countries which are paid in local currency. Email:  shareholder.services@link.co.uk  Website:  www.linkassetservices.com Shareholder Information International Personal Finance plc Number Three   Leeds City Office Park   Meadow Lane   Leeds LS11 5BD Telephone:  +44 (0)113 285 6700  Email:  enquiries@ipfin.co.uk  Website: www.ipfin.co.uk Company number 6018973 Production of this report This report is printed by an EMAS-certified Carbon Neutral ®   company, whose Environmental Management System is  certified to ISO 14001.