investment outperformance helps us to grow our assets under management (aum), by ensuring we keep existing clients and attract new ones. our fund managers are organised into strategy teams, ensuring that they can share ideas and information, while retaining accountability as individuals for their funds’ performance. as we grow, this approach helps to give us a more diversified business by asset class, geography and investment style. both of these changes benefit clients and increase transparency, enabling them to more easily assess the investment performance after all fees. it is confident that jupiter’s position as an active fund manager focused on investment performance after all fees can support its continued growth. people and culture jupiter has good gender balance at board level but this is not replicated in all areas of the group. these launches underline jupiter’s growing expertise and reputation in emerging markets, which accounts for an increasing proportion of our aum. mutual fund providers, pension funds and insurance companies are providing more opportunities for these individuals to achieve their investment goals. while each building block addresses the interests of all our stakeholders, some have a primary focus on one particular stakeholder group. we organise our investment professionals into strategy teams, so they can share ideas and information, while remaining individually accountable for the performance of their funds. the breadth of our product range means that clients can choose products which meet their needs and suit current market conditions. our significant investment in 2017 will, over time, deliver efficiencies and more operating scale, facilitating further growth through a standardised approach to running the platform. our investment function is arranged around 12 strategies, providing a framework for repeatable performance, but the teams themselves are small and nimble. our well‑ defined product development process enables us to deliver new products or enhancements, so we can target client groups in a timely and efficient way. our investment function is arranged around 12 strategies, providing a framework for repeatable performance, but the teams themselves are small and nimble. our well‑ defined product development process enables us to deliver new products or enhancements, so we can target client groups in a timely and efficient way. jupiter has formal guidelines for managing and overseeing all third‑ party relationships, ensuring they receive a level of scrutiny that reflects their potential risk to our business. jupiter has formal guidelines for managing and overseeing all third‑ party relationships, ensuring they receive a level of scrutiny that reflects their potential risk to our business. this creates opportunities for us to support them more creatively through our strong relationship‑ based model, with new products and client service solutions. we are also helping our managers manage their teams effectively, with a focus on improving management and personal development conversations around performance. we also recognise that the talented people who join us bring their own perspectives, which make a positive contribution to jupiter’s culture. it has also streamlined the sharing of data across business functions, which helps us to make well‑ informed decisions that ultimately benefit our clients. this position of capital strength enables us to be agile when assessing and pursuing market opportunities in which we see the potential for value creation. being debt‑ free and having now fully amortised its trade name intangible assets, there are currently no material differences between jupiter’s underlying pbt and its adjusted ebitda; additionally, amortisation charges going forward will principally relate to assets developed as part of the operating business which should be taken into consideration when measuring performance. tcf is a core fca principle, which promotes fair treatment of clients from product inception through to marketing and post‑ sales support. the content of these meetings varies but can include strategy, board effectiveness, remuneration, shareholder rights, culture, values, succession planning and sustainability. our office in hong kong, where renewable tariffs are not available, purchased internationally recognised i‑ recs, using chinese wind power to offset the electrical kw/h usage. previous appointments charlotte commenced her career at ernst & young where she progressed to be an audit partner in the financial services practice. previous appointments jonathon was a founding partner of actis llp, the emerging markets specialist alternatives fund manager, where he spent over ten years. previous appointments karl was a founding partner of institutional asset manager oxford investment partners, which was bought by towers watson in 2013. prior to that he held a number of positions at morgan grenfell/deutsche asset management between 1992 and 2004, including chief investment officer for london, australia, europe and the asia pacific. six scheduled board meetings took place during the year, with an additional meeting off‑ site in june for a two day discussion of strategy related matters. introducing capped incentives our current policy contains no limits on the amounts that individual executive directors can be awarded under incentive schemes. benefits are also offered on a consistent basis – for example, the level of employer pension contributions is 15% of base salary for executive directors and all uk employees and other benefits, such as private medical insurance, are offered to all uk employees on the same terms. n/a 68 governance remuneration report continued purpose and link to strategy operation maximum opportunity performance measures ltip provides long‑ term reward with awards made on an annual basis. service agreements policy the policy terms and effective dates of the current executive directors’ service agreements are summarised below: provision details term not fixed notice period six months’ written notice from either party, during which period salary and benefits will be provided but no contractual entitlement to any bonus payment will accrue or arise. continued progress was made on the acquisition of talent, including fund managers and key functional roles to support jupiter’s future success. the company has recruited a number of fund managers to manage new investment strategies including asian income and emerging market debt. additionally, john continues to be employed by jupiter in his role as head of strategy for the independent funds team. where performance measures produce an outcome which does not align with that of stakeholders, the committee may exercise its discretion as it considers appropriate. given the longer time horizon over which ltip assesses performance, both a three and five year outperformance measure is included. this is demonstrated through a variety of reward features and processes that ensure alignment to risk considerations throughout the organisation. no new shares have been issued since listing in 2010. therefore, we are currently operating within the relevant dilution targets by a comfortable margin. 3 maarten slendebroek has two separate ltip awards included in the 2016 single figure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year. 4 maarten slendebroek has two separate ltip awards included in the 2017 single figure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year. management monitors operating earnings, a non‑ gaap measure (see page 31), for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. trade and other receivables, including loans to employees, are included in current assets except where they have maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. therefore, at each month end, receivables are low as we have already collected amounts due from the majority of our clients. for those in our testing sample not administered by hsbc or jp morgan, we obtained supporting external evidence over aum. the impairment review requires a number of significant estimates to be made by management such as forecasts and discount rates.