By their nature, these statements involve  uncertainty since future events and circumstances can  cause results to differ materially from those anticipated. Because any potential problems show up early  on, engineers can schedule physical inspections and repairs for optimal times, when energy demand is  low. If punctured by a high impact explosive 23mm bullet, Meggitt’s ballistically-resistant fuel  bladders will self-seal in less than two minutes. over 5 yrs 6.1 % Our third priority is to target value accretive  acquisitions in attractive markets where we  have or can develop a strong competitive  position. One such example is research into  advanced thermal systems for ultra-high  bypass engines, where we have secured a UK  Government grant of £3.7m to build on our  deep capability in aerospace heat exchangers. Competitiveness Productivity  Purchasing  Footprint  Inventory Investing in our people, property and  plant to make operational performance  a key competitive strength. MATURITY Revenues gain momentum As our products age, they require maintenance or replacement at varying intervals  based on condition. One example of such tools is the results  cone, a framework designed to enable more  effective problem solving and teamwork. This is achieved by highlighting and  addressing implicit thought habits which  drive behaviours that inhibit successful  outcomes in the workplace. This has been influenced by  high oil prices, the low cost of debt and  newer, more advanced aircraft coming to  market. The production  of large and super mid-size jets has been  particularly challenged since 2014 with  deliveries down by 10% per annum during  this time. This was  partially offset by declining demand for  Boeing 777X and Airbus A380 platforms  where deliveries decreased significantly  during the year. Capability-based business  units deploy technological know-how and intellectual property across  all our markets so we are not dependent on single customers,  individual programmes or market segments. Meggitt Performance Energy revenue declined by 8% in 2017  on an organic basis, including a 21%  decline at Heatric (our printed circuit heat  exchanger business) compared to 2016  when it completed the last of its material  contracts to supply PCHEs for floating liquid  natural gas (‘FLNG’) and floating production  storage and offloading (‘FPSO’) vessels,  secured before the significant reduction  in oil price. In June 2017, we completed the sale of  three non-core industrial businesses,  including two MSS units, Meggitt Maryland  and Piezo Technologies. Both of  these measures are embedded in the Group’s Meggitt  Production System (MPS) criteria for moving through its  six-phase programme. Energy revenue declined organically by  8%, including a 21% decline at Heatric  which completed the last of its significant  contracts to support large capital projects  in offshore gas during 2016. Concentration of risk  We raise funds through private placement  issuances and committed bank facilities to  reduce reliance on any one market. MEGGITT PLC f Inanc Ial Statement S Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 StrategIc r ep Ort Chief Financial Officer’s review continued c. Refinancing risk  We seek to ensure the maturity of our  facilities is staggered and any refinancing is  concluded in good time, typically more  than 12 months before expiry. The covenant  calculations are drafted to protect us from  potential volatility caused by accounting  standard changes, sudden movements in  exchange rates and exceptional items. It is expected that any revised  recovery plan arising from this valuation  will be finalised in the first half of 2019. Meggitt has two other principal post- retirement benefit schemes providing  medical and life assurance benefits to  certain US employees. It is  a complicated standard, requiring the  terms of every significant customer  contract to be considered against new  revenue recognition rules. Meggitt’s corporate strategy is designed to  optimise our business model and take risk,  with the required controls, on an informed  basis. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION MEGGITT PLC 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE StrategIc r ep Ort Risk Description Impact How we manage it Business interruption KPIs: • Financial performance A catastrophic event such as an  earthquake (the Group has a  significant operational presence  in Southern California) or fire  could lead to infrastructure and  property damage which  prevents the Group from  fulfilling its contractual  obligations. Customer  satisfaction KPIs: • Financial performance • Inventory turns Failure to meet customers’ cost,  quality and delivery standards  or qualify as preferred suppliers. Our values  and commitments in these areas are reviewed regularly to take into consideration the changing expectations of society. We  recognise that developing the right  culture is important and will ultimately  help us to deliver sustainable high  performance. Participation in HPC training to date  has been encouraging with positive  feedback from across the organisation  (see pages 21 and 51). Local plans will be  integrated into our overall Talent  Management framework and reviewed  regularly by the Executive Committee  to ensure continual progress. We do this through the  Group’s REACH Steering Committee which  consists of representatives from each  strategic business unit. It  also provides us a voice in how our industry  will respond to ever changing and complex  global environmental regulations. During 2017, the MABS Women in  Leadership Group supported  different charitable organisations  that had connections with  employees based on site. Tony brings  a wealth of industry knowledge, skills and  extensive operational experience from his  thirty years in the aerospace sector. His  contribution as Chief Operating Officer  has been outstanding and I know that he  will be an excellent successor to Stephen. Effectiveness The 2016 external board evaluation  highlighted that although a lot of progress  had been made on strategy, succession  planning and risk management in prior  years, there were further opportunities  to improve. “Tony brings a wealth of industry knowledge, skills and  extensive operational experience from his thirty years in  the aerospace sector. His contribution as Chief Operating  Officer has been outstanding and I know that he will be an  excellent successor to Stephen.” STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS gO vernance • Whilst executive management had improved this area  significantly over the last five years, there were opportunities to  improve further in 2017. • No one other than Committee chairs and members are entitled  to attend the meetings, although others can be invited. The Board is aware of  over-boarding guidelines set out by institutional shareholder  advisory organisations, and considers these when discussing  new appointments. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS gO vernance Board performance evaluation In order to evaluate its own effectiveness, the Board undertakes  annual effectiveness reviews using a combination of independent  externally facilitated and internally run evaluations over a three-year  cycle. Directors’ understanding of major shareholders’ views is enhanced  by reports from the Vice President, Strategy & Investor Relations,  our brokers and attending analysts’ briefings. May 2017 A capital markets day was held covering the  detailed operational review undertaken by Tony  Wood including commentary on outlook and  operating targets. Reasons for this can include adverse prior audit findings, a change  in IT system, site moves, senior leadership changes or operational  performance issues. The approach for 2017 was to deliver these reviews  using subject matter experts based around four core strategic IT  areas: programmes, operations, fix-the-fundamentals and security. STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include  quality, on time delivery, inventory, footprint consolidation and  net purchasing costs. This was partly offset by continued headwinds from mix, depreciation,  amortisation and growth in new product introduction costs at Meggitt Polymers & Composites. Operation Salary will be reviewed by the Committee annually, in February, with changes effective from 1 April of that year. The Committee’s policy is that executive directors’ service contracts should be terminable on no more than 12 months’ notice. 86 MEGGITT PLC f Inanc Ial Statement S Annual Report and Accounts 2017 gO vernance Based on these performance outcomes, 18.9% of the 2015 LTIP award will vest. early retirement factors cost neutral 1 Mr Young opted to leave the MPP and take his pension benefits with effect from 5 April 2012. 88 MEGGITT PLC f Inanc Ial Statement S Annual Report and Accounts 2017 gO vernance Review of past performance The remuneration package is structured to help ensure alignment with shareholders. • We identified 11 reporting units  which, in our view, required a full  scope audit based on their size  or risk. Exchange differences arising prior to 1 January 2004 remain in  equity on disposal as permitted by IFRS 1 (‘First time Adoption of  International Financial Reporting Standards’). Goodwill is tested  annually for impairment, and also whenever events or changes in  circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 115 Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever  events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value  may not be recoverable. Qualifying assets are those that necessarily  take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use,  which would generally be at least 12 months. Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental  directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from  retained earnings. None of these are expected to  have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements when they are adopted except as disclosed below: IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ This standard establishes principles for reporting the nature, amount and timing of revenue arising from an entity’s contracts with  customers. These risks are managed by a centralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved  objectives, policies and authorities (see also pages 37 to 38 of the Chief Financial Officer’s review). It is reasonably foreseeable that, depending on groundwater testing results in 2018,  the periods for which operations and maintenance will be required could increase by up to five years. In making this judgement, the  Group makes estimates of aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines. The Board considers net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations to be a non-trading  item and accordingly excludes it from underlying profit measures. The non-current portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, is classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement  hierarchy, as it has been determined using significant inputs which are a mixture of those based on observable market data (interest rate  risk) and those not based on observable market data (credit risk). Deferred tax assets not  recognised, would be recoverable in the event they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available. Based on latest OE delivery forecasts from external agencies, the future estimated expenditure under contractual  commitments to incur development costs and programme participation costs at 31 December 2017, which under the Group’s current  accounting polices would be expected to be recognised as intangible assets when incurred, are shown below. 170 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC OTHER INFORMATION Five-year record   2017  £’m 2016  £’m 2015  £’m 2014  £’m 2013  £’m Revenue and profit Revenue 2,027.3 1,992.4 1,647.2 1,553.7 1,637.3 Underlying profit before tax 357.9 352.1 310.3 328.7 377.8 Exceptional operating items (74.6) (15.5) (10.4) (9.0) (36.7) Amounts arising on the acquisition, disposal and closure of businesses 25.3 39.1 (0.2) (3.5) 8.3 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (93.5) (98.6) (71.9) (68.1) (74.3) Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations – (4.6) (1.6) – (0.3) Financial instruments 58.6 (66.4) (4.8) (29.2) 6.1 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations (11.3) (10.6) (11.2) (10.0) (11.5) Profit before tax 262.4 195.5 210.2 208.9 269.4 Earnings and dividends Earnings per share – basic 45.2p 22.1p 23.2p 22.0p 29.4p Earnings per share – underlying 35.3p 34.8p 31.6p 32.4p 37.5p Dividends per ordinary share in respect of the year 15.85p 15.10p 14.40p 13.75p 12.75p Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity 37.7% 48.0% 48.3% 26.9% 27.2% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report and Accounts 2017 171 MEGGITT PLC OTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Investor information Contacts Investor relations T: 01202 597597  E: investors@meggitt.com Information on Meggitt PLC, including the latest share price: www.meggitt.com Shareholder enquiries Registrar:  Computershare Investor   Services PLC   The Pavilions   Bridgwater Road   Bristol BS99 6ZZ T: 0370 703 6210   E: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus Enquiries about the following matters should be addressed to Meggitt PLC’s registrar:  • Change of address notification. By their nature, these statements involve  uncertainty since future events and circumstances can  cause results to differ materially from those anticipated. Because any potential problems show up early  on, engineers can schedule physical inspections and repairs for optimal times, when energy demand is  low. If punctured by a high impact explosive 23mm bullet, Meggitt’s ballistically-resistant fuel  bladders will self-seal in less than two minutes.