Owned locations Argentina Australia Bahrain Barbados Belgium Bermuda Brazil Canada Chile China Colombia Denmark Finland France Germany Guernsey Hong Kong India Indonesia Ireland Japan Macau Malaysia Myanmar Netherlands New Zealand Norway Peru Philippines Singapore South Africa South Korea Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Turkey UAE (Dubai) UK USA Vietnam  Associates Austria/Central &  Eastern Europe France India Italy Malta Mexico* Spain * The Group has agreed the sale of its  holding in its associate in Mexico, which  is expected to complete in early 2018. Our entrepreneurial drive gives us the  freedom to take on new challenges,  think creatively and capture  opportunities that others may not. We invest in our colleagues  by offering a comprehensive range of learning and development  opportunities that stretch far beyond mandatory training courses. Employees attending the 2017 ISMP included: Mark McNulty,  Philip Rong, Luis Ganoza, Tyrone Farinha, Pedro Farme, Alok  Mathur, Kevin Rimmer, Stuart Winter, Toby Pollard, Joe Addison,  David Flandro, Matthew Bacon, Collin Yap, David Smith, Doris  Yung, Colin Daly, Beatriz Protasio, Carrie O'Neil, Maurice Gatto,  Toby Sisson and Lucas Salcedo. Providing discretionary  management of assets for  both high net worth individuals  and company pension  schemes, in addition to  asset hosting services. OUR GLOBAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS BUSINESSES PROVIDE SERVICES INCLUDING:  Revenue £320.2m  + 7 % 2016: £300.4m Trading Margin 16 % 2016: 16% Underlying Trading Profit £50.1m  + 1 % 2016: £49.5m Employees 2,621 * 2016: 2,656* EMPLOYEE BENEFITS  2017 OUR BUSINESSES  UK & Ireland p33 Asia p33 Australia & NZ p33 Latin America p34 Canada p34 Middle East and Africa p34 CONTRIBUTION TO   GROUP REVENUE 2017 23 % * Excludes employees in shared service operations 10 STRATEGIC REPORT All brokers in the Network are carefully selected for their  specialist knowledge, local market reputation and quality of  service. The JLT International Network offers our multinational clients risk management and employee benefit  solutions in over 135 countries, providing a global reach. As we announced in January, from 1 April 2018,  our regional insurance broking operations will be brought  together into an integrated Specialty division. Lynne brings with her a broad range of board  skills and extensive experience gained in the financial services  industry over many years. We anticipate that  earnings from a number of important  client wins will help these businesses  return to organic revenue growth in 2018. We have been making significant  investments in building our Specialty  capabilities across Latin America and  these results demonstrate the success  of that strategy. Bringing JLT's  regional insurance broking operations together into an  integrated Specialty division, with leaders appointed in each  of its principal industry specialty businesses (Energy,  Construction, Financial Lines, Aerospace, Marine & Cargo  and Credit & Political Risks), responsible for globally coordinated  sales and delivery to clients, will enable JLT to operate as  a combined group of global specialists. 16 STRATEGIC REPORT An integrated global management structure is already operating  effectively and delivering value in JLT’s Reinsurance division. It is also making appropriate  investments for the future so as to generate new business from  today’s employees. Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 17 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING FORWARD  After five consecutive years of falling reinsurance rates, global  property catastrophe rates have experienced some upward  pressure but with significant variances across regions driven  in large part by the losses experienced following hurricanes  Harvey, Irma and Maria. GLOBAL MACRO ECONOMIC TRENDS 1   STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION   Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 19 COMPETITION 3 THE RATING ENVIRONMENT 2 For several years, high levels of available capital in the insurance  markets, with relatively low loss levels, have led to sustained  downward pressure on premiums. Key to the success of our  recruitment approach has been retaining and  attracting individuals who not only add further  capabilities, but also fit JLT’s distinctive culture. It is essential for us to deliver what clients want,  which will mean striking the right balance between complex  transactions and simpler, more commoditised solutions in   some circumstances. • Roll out a global practice approach across all  of the Group’s key Specialty areas, including  Energy, Construction, Financial Lines,  Aerospace, Marine & Cargo and Credit &  Political Risks. Our focus on preserving operating leverage maintained  cost growth in line with revenue, whilst continuing to invest for  the future. Providing our clients with access to certain exclusive insurance  facilities, binders and other products, without taking any balance  sheet underwriting risk. Through JLT's  continued investment on the continent, European revenues are  expected to grow over time across several specialty sectors. Principal lines of business  Aviation, Capital Risks, Construction, Cyber, Energy,  Entertainment & Leisure, Financial & Professional Services,  Food & Agribusiness, Healthcare, Manufacturing, Marine,   Real Estate, Retail, SME & Consumer Products, Transport   and Logistics. Review of Operations  During the year insurance and reinsurance market conditions  continued to reduce demand for new captives in certain  regions. Providing discretionary  management of assets for both high net worth individuals and  company pension schemes, in addition to asset hosting services. This is a rapidly developing  market where we see the opportunity to expand our capabilities  through health management and consulting. Key business areas are Corporate (Risk Management & Middle  Market), Aviation, Marine (Hull & Machinery, Liability, P&I,  Cargo), High Net Worth (Yacht, Fine Art, Contingency) and  Affinity (Employee Benefits, Motor). Organic revenue of our international  Employee Benefits businesses remained at  similar levels to 2016 reflecting challenging  macroeconomic and trading conditions. Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 43 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RISKS NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISKS Economic Instability JLT’s business is driven more by economic activity and  growth than by (re)insurance market rates, since greater  levels of corporate activity generally drive greater demand  for the Group’s services. At JLT our functional teams - including HR, Property Services,  Procurement, Finance, Risk and Marketing – have a strong  focus on delivering CR-related projects. These designated  representatives are responsible for driving CR activity at a local  level and liaise closely with the Steering Group. We aim to recruit the  most talented and ambitious people, irrespective of differences  in education, religion, nationality, race, gender, age, physical  ability, social background or sexual orientation. We offer a range of standard and discretionary health benefits  to our employees in most territories, alongside support for  healthy lifestyles. These funds  have annually sponsored a young paediatric doctor, the JLT Medical  Fellow, to undergo Specialist training in Cystic Fibrosis. We are also pleased to welcome   Lynne Peacock, who will join the Board   as a Non-Executive Director with effect  from 1 May 2018. ADAM KESWICK DEPUTY CHAIRMAN RICHARD MEDDINGS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NICHOLAS WALSH NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR LORD SASSOON, Kt NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit & Risk Committee 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit & Risk Committee Andrew Didham (Chairman) Annette Court Richard Meddings Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Remuneration Committee Richard Meddings (Chairman) Annette Court Andrew Didham  Adam Keswick Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Nominations Committee Geoffrey Howe (Chairman) Annette Court Andrew Didham Adam Keswick Richard Meddings Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT Group Board Geoffrey Howe (Non-Executive Chairman) Non-Executive Directors Adam Keswick (Deputy Chairman) Annette Court (Senior Independent Director) Andrew Didham Richard Meddings Lord Sassoon Nicholas Walsh Executive Directors Dominic Burke (Group Chief Executive) Mark Drummond Brady (Deputy Group CEO) Charles Rozes (Group Finance Director) STRUCTURE AT A GLANCE The structure below sets out the composition of the Board and its Committees as at 31 December 2017:  GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK  The Board and its Committees operate within a wider  governance framework. Eligible to attend Attended  Geoffrey Howe 7 7 Dominic Burke 7 7 Mark Drummond-Brady 1 7 6 Charles Rozes 7 7 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 2  4 4 Annette Court 7 7 Jonathan Dawson 3 6 6 Andrew Didham 4 2 2 Adam Keswick 7 7 Richard Meddings 4 2 2 Lord Sassoon 7 7 Nicholas Walsh 7 7 1. Committee members Scheduled  meetings eligible  to attend  Attended Andrew Didham 1 2 2 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 3  3 3 Annette Court 6 6 Jonathan Dawson 2 5 5 Richard Meddings 4 2 2 Lord Sassoon 6 6 Nicholas Walsh 6 6 1. The Committee works closely with management to ensure  that succession planning looks ahead over multiple years and  addresses any identified skill shortages. Incorporates various cash/non-cash benefits which  are competitive in the relevant market, and which  may include: a company car (or equivalent cash  allowance), subscriptions, life assurance,   death-in-service pension, private medical, annual  medical check-up, permanent health cover,  reimbursed business expenses (including any  associated tax liability) incurred when travelling in  performance of duties, and, where necessary, other  benefits to reflect specific individual circumstances,  such as housing, relocation, travel or other  expatriate allowances. Contributions, in line with the Scheme  Rules, are made by reference to pensionable  earnings (currently a maximum of £140,000 but  reviewed annually). Under the DBSP , participants are granted a  conditional award of shares which normally vest  over three years, subject to continued employment. Discussions were seen as high quality, focusing on  the appropriate areas, with a good level of constructive debate  and robust challenge. Deloitte LLP also provide services to the Group  in respect of corporate tax advice, internal audit assistance,  regulatory reporting and Company share schemes. These statements  should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and  uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information. • Post 	 r etir ement 	 mortality: 	 Scheme 	 specific 	 base 	 tables 	 ar e 	 used 	 with 	 an	 allowance for future improvements in life expectancy based on recent  projections. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other  compr ehensive 	 income 	 ar e 	 r eclassified	 to 	 pr ofit	 or 	 loss. Full 	 actuarial 	 valuations 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 defined	 benefit	 schemes 	 ar e 	 carried	 out at least every three years. Items 	 classified 	 as 	 exceptional 	 items 	 may 	 include, 	 but 	 ar e 	 not 	 limited 	 to: 	 gains 	 or	 losses 	 arising 	 fr om 	 the 	 sale 	 of 	 businesses 	 and 	 investments; 	 closur e	 costs 	 for 	 businesses; 	 r estructuring 	 costs; 	 pr ofessional 	 fees 	 in 	 r espect	 of 	 acquisitions; 	 post 	 acquisition 	 integration 	 costs; 	 post 	 acquisition	 adjustments 	 to 	 balance 	 sheet 	 items; 	 and 	 other 	 cr edits 	 and 	 charges 	 of 	 a	 non-recurring nature that require inclusion in order to provide additional  insight into the underlying business performance. The Group will also defer  revenue in respect of other performance obligations that are separate and  distinct, 	 which 	 is 	 not 	 expected 	 to 	 be 	 significant. BUSINESS SEGMENT ANALYSIS The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main segments: Risk & Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other operations. The Asian segment includes operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan,  Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, South Korea, Philippines, Malaysia, China, Vietnam, Dubai, Qatar, Bahrain and Turkey. The Asian segment includes operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia, Japan, Thailand, South Korea, Philippines,  Malaysia, China and Vietnam. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial  budgets approved by management covering a five year period and are discounted using the weighted average cost of capital. iii) 8 years in respect of interest rate hedges on Sterling  denominated long term debt drawn under the  Group’s private placement programme. As at 31 December 2017 the Group had outstanding  foreign exchange contracts, principally in USD,  amounting to a principal value of £1,158,701,000 (2016:  £1,199,325,000). This is summarised as follows: 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 AAA 12,739  10,685  AA 373,163  318,613  AA/A 129,869  125,247  A 129,577  146,111  BBB 346,761  322,953  Other 22,978  16,336  Total 1,015,087  939,945  The effective interest rate in respect of short-term deposits was 1.20% (2016: 0.94%). (b)  Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the trade and other payables balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments. Level 2 includes derivatives used for hedging, which are valued using a discounted cash flow  methodology incorporating observable market forward foreign exchange and interest rates. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES CONTINUED Where a litigation provision has been made it is stated gross of any third party recovery. 29. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED   Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017     151 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 29. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED ii) Acquisition of Belgibo NV On 31 August 2017, the Group acquired Belgibo NV in Belgium, a long established, highly regarded Specialty broker, with market-leading expertise  in Marine, Aviation and Credit & Political risks. Under the Scheme   as amended, a participant’s normal retirement benefit will be determined based on their service and compensation prior to 1 December 2006. An updated triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2017 is currently being carried out but results are not yet available. Employees aged over 50 may make “catch-up” contributions subject  to an IRS maximum each year of USD 6,000 in 2017. b)    The JLT (USA) Employee Retirement Plan which is a defined benefit scheme. Under the plan as amended,  a participant’s normal retirement benefit will be determined based on their service and compensation prior to 31 July 2005. Under the Plan as amended, a participant's normal retirement benefit  will be determined based on their service and compensation prior to 31 March 2016. The JLT Canada Defined Pension Plan's last formal valuation was undertaken as at 31 December 2016 by a qualified third party actuary. 105, Condomino Thera One,   Sao Paulo, Brazil 1 JLT RE Brasil, Administracao e Corretagem de  Resseguros Ltda 75.72 Avenida Beira Mar no. SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES CONTINUED 168     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company % Holding   (if less than  100%) Registered Office address Notes   Spain March-JLT, Correduria de Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. 25.00 Calle de Lagasca 88, Madrid, Spain 4 Sweden JLT Re (Northern Europe) AB Jakobsbergsgatan 7, 11144 Stockholm, Sweden JLT Risk Solutions AB 65.00 Jakobsbergsgatan 7, 11144 Stockholm, Sweden Lavaretus Underwriting AB Jakobsbergsgatan 7, 11144 Stockholm, Sweden Switzerland Jardine Lloyd Thompson PCS SA 75.00 Rue de Chantepoulet 1-3, 1201, Geneva, Switzerland Taiwan Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited 13F, 50 Hsin Sheng S. Road, Sec 1, Taipei, Taiwan Thailand Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited 49.00 The 9th Towers, 31st Floor, Rama 9 Road, Huay Khwang,   Bangkok, 10310, Thailand JLT Life Assurance Brokers Limited The 9th Towers, 31st Floor, Rama 9 Road, Huay Khwang,   Bangkok, 10310, Thailand Turkey JLT Sigorta ve Reasürans Brokerliği A.Ş. NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  for the year ended 31 December 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION   Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual	Report 	2017     175 c. Investment in subsidiaries 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 At	1	January 68,995 68,916 Increase 4,289 79 At 31 December 73,284 68,995 Investment	comprise	equity 	 shar es	 in 	 JIB 	 Gr oup	 Ltd	and 	JL T	Insurance	Br okers 	Co.,	Limited, 	neither	of 	which 	ar e	 publically 	 traded.