BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of  this report save as would arise under English law. BAE Systems also manages complex  ammunition plant operations for the US Army  to produce insensitive munitions and  propellant grains. Growing demand for our  Advanced Precision Kill Weapon  System (APKWS™) laser-guided  rockets, with awards totalling  nearly $300m (£222m) during  the year and over 13,000 units  delivered at 31 December. Our US-based Electronic Systems  business received orders on the  F-35 Lightning II programme  worth over $450m (£333m) for  additional hardware production  and five years of support. We  use these capabilities primarily in the defence  sector but, where appropriate, extend our  reach into related and adjacent commercial  market areas. Ian retired after a career spanning more than  40 years at the Company, including leading  BAE Systems as Chief Executive since 2008. Additional dry dock capacity  at our San Diego shipyard became operational  in February 2017 and accepted its first ship  during the year. The iMOTR ™  solution, developed over  two years with Group-funded research  and development expenditure, features  enhanced capabilities that offer more precise  flight path tracking for objects travelling  close to the ground and allow tracking  information to be shared in real time with  other radars or data collection sensors. During 2017, we rolled  out further ethics training across the Group  to support employees and, in January 2018,  launched our revised Code of Conduct. Regional security tensions, the growing  emphasis on indigenous capabilities and  varying economic conditions continue to  influence defence spending internationally. We have a strong presence in Sweden  through our BAE Systems Hägglunds business  supplying and supporting tracked vehicles  for international customers. This trend is not unusual for  companies like ours which employ large  numbers of people with qualifications in  STEM-related fields. We also work with potential overseas partners  as part of our international campaigns and this  can be a major discriminator in some markets. Advances in sensor technology, robotics  design and machine learning will increasingly  enable humans to work safely alongside machines  without stopping the production line. Costs have been incurred  against provisions created in previous years as  the US commercial shipbuilding programmes  are closed out. – Order backlog was at a record high of  $7.3bn (£5.4bn) following further awards  for F-35 Lightning II systems, classified  Electronic Warfare activity and APKWS ™   product. Production of our sensor technology for the  Long Range Anti-Ship Missile has commenced  following a $40m (£30m) order from prime  contractor Lockheed Martin. Survivability, Targeting & Sensing Our Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System  (APKWS ™ ) laser-guided rocket is experiencing  growing demand, with over 13,000 units  delivered as at 31 December 2017. Since winning the Geospatial Data Services  Foundational GEOINT Content Management  programme in 2014, we have been awarded  orders valued at $214m (£158m). The CONverged Collaborative Elements for  RF Task Operations – or CONCERTO –  programme is creating single, multi-function  payloads that adapt to changing battlefield  situations and mission needs in real time. Group strategic   framework 18 More online  baesystems.com Looking forward Forward-looking information for the  Electronic Systems reporting segment  is provided later in this report. The contract means this bank can use  our latest cutting-edge technology to  ensure criminals and money launderers  are accurately detected. Alternative performance  measure definitions 06 41 BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operational performance Intelligence & Security Global Analysis & Operations We are pursuing task orders under a new  Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity  contract with an estimated value of more  than $400m (£296m) to expand our work  in motion-imagery analysis, analytic training,  multi-media support and research for the  US intelligence community. Although we executed on  our task orders and provided IT services to  foster greater systems integration and  information sharing for the intelligence  community, we have been advised that  future contract options will not be exercised  as the government reassesses its acquisition  strategy in favour of a more federated desktop  approach. In March, we received a  contract from the US Army worth up to  $112m (£83m) for technical support and  sustainment of M88 recovery vehicles. Group strategic   framework 18 More online  baesystems.com Looking forward Forward-looking information for the  Platforms & Services (US) reporting  segment is provided later in this report. Group strategic   framework 18 More online  baesystems.com Looking forward Forward-looking information reflecting  the organisational changes described on  page 48 is provided later in this report. Financial performance Financial performance   measures defined in IFRS 2 2017 2016 Revenue £3,136m £3,037m Operating profit £427m £365m Return on revenue 13.6% 12.0% Cash flow from  operating activities £669m £473m – Order backlog was marginally higher at  £13.3bn (2016 £13.1bn) as further order  intake was booked under the renewal of the  five-year support contract in Saudi Arabia  and Qatari naval orders became effective  within MBDA. Alternative performance  measure definitions 06 53 BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our strategy in action Upgrading  Australia’s radar  defence network In June, we were advised that we have been  selected as the preferred tenderer to help  sustain Australia’s radar defence network  beyond 2042. 54 BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 Segmental review  Platforms & Services  ( International ) The Saudi Arabian In-Kingdom Industrial  Participation programme continues to make  good progress. Separately, we continue to fulfil our legacy  industrial participation obligations in Oman  through delivery of an agreed training and  knowledge transfer programme. Integration of  MBDA missiles on F-35 Lightning II has  progressed well, with successful Advanced  Short Range Air-to-Air Missile qualification  firings achieved and contracts received from  the UK to integrate Meteor. HQ comprises the Group’s UK-based head office and shared services activities, together with a 49% interest in Air Astana. Air – Sales are expected to be some 5%  lower as activity on Typhoon for the  European, Saudi and Oman contracts  is largely complete. Corporate responsibility is a key enabler for our business,  supporting sustainable long-term performance by  managing non-financial risks that can impact reputation  and shareholder value. Sales and marketing advisers  with whom the Company has an ongoing  relationship go through this process every  two years. Therefore, in line with the  Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance, this figure has been  calculated using residual-mix emission factors where available  for our UK and US operations. The nature of  our business, with large-scale projects and  fluctuations in orders, makes it challenging to  set a Group-wide emissions reduction target. They are also responsible for reporting and  monitoring key risks in accordance with  established processes under the Group’s  Operational Framework. Defence spending by governments can fluctuate  depending on change of government policy,  other political considerations, budgetary  constraints, specific threats and movements  in the international oil price. The US business has  become adept at managing through Continuing Resolutions  and brief government shutdowns, mitigating any short-term  interruptions across our portfolio. BAE Systems benefits from a large  order backlog, with established positions on long-term  programmes in the US, UK, Saudi Arabia and Australia. In the defence and security industries,  governments can typically modify contracts  for their convenience or terminate them at  short notice. Reduced access to export markets  could have a material adverse effect  on the Group’s future results and  financial condition. BAE Systems continues to reinforce its ethics programme globally,  driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in making  ethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices. The funding deficits may be adversely affected  by changes in a number of factors, including  investment returns and anticipated members’  longevity. The Board considers risk as part  of its annual strategy review process and also when  considering major new business bids. Board members  engage with employees when visiting Company  sites around the world, and it has held ‘town hall’  meetings as part of such visits. LCM (Lifecycle Management Policy) How we plan and manage the  execution of all projects above a  certain minimum level, providing  decision gate reviews at key  stages from initial opportunity  to final closure. Earlier in his career,  he spent almost a decade as an acquisition official at  the US Department of Defense. This year,  Peter’s role was expanded to include responsibility  for UK Shared Services, Procurement and Group  Mergers & Acquisitions. An external  assessment of the function originally  scheduled to be undertaken in 2017 has been  deferred until 2018 following organisational  changes taking effect from 1 January 2018. For all of these areas we aimed to understand  how management assesses risk, from both  an operational and reputational perspective. In reading  this report, we hope you will agree that the  results of our deliberations are consistent  with these purposes. For Jerry  DeMuro, the single total figure of remuneration on page 99 includes his 2017 Restricted Shares award as required by regulation. In addition, upon his retirement, Ian King received a leaving gift totalling £5k, with any tax due  on this payment being settled by the Company. One-third of the net bonus paid to Charles Woodburn,  Peter Lynas and Jerry DeMuro will be deferred compulsorily into BAE Systems shares for a three-year period, without  additional performance conditions. Accrued benefit for Charles Woodburn is the total value of his defined contribution account, including employee  contributions and investment returns. Ian King’s scheme interests stated as at 30 June 2017 are after pro-rating in accordance with his leaving  arrangements referred to on page 100. One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject to compulsory deferral for three years in BAE Systems shares without  any matching. Additional benefits, such as relocation assistance, may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and  appropriate by the Committee. His appointment as Chairman (which commenced on 1 February 2014) will automatically terminate if he  ceases to be a director of the Company. Any changes to the classification and measurement of financial instruments are applied retrospectively by adjusting opening retained earnings  at 1 January 2018. As set out in note 32, BAE Systems has operating lease commitments totalling £1.6bn at 31 December 2017 and, therefore, IFRS 16 will have a  material impact on the Group. Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS (1 January 2004) are presented in equity, but not as a separate component. With effect from 1 January 2017, certain tax services and investor information services are no longer provided by KPMG in order to ensure compliance with the Financial  Reporting Council’s revised regulations on ethical standards for auditors and EU regulations adopted by the UK which apply prohibitions to a range of engagements that  could result in an auditor facing a conflict of interest. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and overdrafts  are stated at either amortised cost or, where hedge accounting has been adopted, fair value in respect of the hedged risk. Munitions, LLC (51%) 22 1713 Burdette Crossing, Blue Springs MO 64015, United States Equity accounted investments Abercromby Property International (20.42%) Advanced Electronics Company Limited (48%) PO Box 90916, Riyadh 11623, Saudi Arabia Air Astana (49%) 5 Zakarpatskaya Str 4A, 050039 Almaty, Kazakhstan AMSH B.V. (50%) 9 Weena 210-212, 3012 NJ Rotterdam, Netherlands BAeHAL Software Limited (40%) 1,18 Airport Lane, HAL Estate, Bangalore 560010, India BHIC Bofors Defense Asia Sdn Bhd (49%) Level 21, Suite 21.01, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley  City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia BAE (Consultancy Services) Malaysia Sdn Bhd (49%) Tkt.11, Wisma Damansara, Damansara Heights, 50490  Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Canadian Naval Support Limited (50%) 15 3099 Barrington Street, Halifax NS B3K 5M7, Canada CTA International SAS (50%) 13 Route De La Miniere, 78000 Versailles, France Data Link Solutions L.L.C. The Group’s MBDA joint venture is undertaking a number of significant  contracts which include both development and production elements. Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm,  copying its website or giving you false contact details.