three new floors and refurbishment of existing space delivered by construction & infrastructure, while retaining the grade ii listed victorian terrace façade. responsible business from aberdeen to plymouth, breathing life back into 14 town centres across the country in 2017. investments page 46 performance highlights sustainable growth order book £3.8bn 2016: £3.6bn +6% regeneration and development pipeline £3.2bn 2016: £3.2bn +1% gross margin 9.8% 2016: 9.5% +30bps shareholder returns profit before tax (adjusted*) £66.1m 2016: £45.3m +46% profit before tax £64.9m 2016: £43.9m basic earnings per share (adjusted*) 121.1p 2016: 84.7p +43% basic earnings per share 118.8p 2016: 83.3p total dividend 45.0p 2016: 35.0p +29% social responsibility accident frequency rate 1 0.09 2016: 0.14 –36% carbon intensity 2 10.2 2016: 12.0 –15% apprentices and new graduates 217 2016: 167 +30% 1 the number of riddor 3 reportable accidents multiplied by 100,000 and divided by the number of hours worked. michael findlay chairman 22 february 2018 “w e have stayed focused on our strategy of specialising in construction and regeneration.” governance principles leadership see pages 67 to 69 board members rigorously challenge each other on strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability to ensure that we make high-quality decisions. £4.9bn transport £11.5bn housing £0.7bn digital £7.1bn research and development allocations to date: uk population estimates and projections 80m 70m 60m 50m 0m 1960 1980 2000 2020 2040 population — estimates - - p rojections source: ons source: industrial strategy: building a britain fit for the future, hm government source: ons source: ons 04 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 strategic report long-term trends housing shortages investment in infrastructure population growth constrained public expenditure £15.3bn new government financial support £8bn increase in government investment fund 65.6m uk population at its largest ever cost efficiencies required in the public sector the housing shortage has made buying a new home less affordable, costing on average more than seven times annual earnings (office for national statistics (ons)). public sector net borrowing (excluding public sector banks) april to november 2017 compared with april 2016 to march 2017, uk 60 40 50 20 10 30 0 –10 apr jun aug oct dec feb £bn — cumulative full ﬁnancial year (april 2016 – march 2017) — cumulative ﬁnancial year-to-date (april – november 2017) source: ons source: industrial strategy: building a britain fit for the future, hm government source: ons source: ons target markets our markets estimated overall construction market up 4.6% in 2017 current market conditions the construction products association (cpa) issued its industry forecast on 16 october 2017, estimating the overall uk construction market at £144bn in 2017 (2016: £138bn), up 4.6%. morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 ——— 07 strategic report page width = 207mm construction in confidence page width = 197mm regeneration the future page width = 197mm a vibrant ne w city c entr e development project marischal square, aberdeen division urban regeneration marischal square is a new development in the heart of aberdeen, delivered in partnership with aberdeen city council and funded by aviva investors. the group has delivered another strong year of growth in 2017, providing an encouraging platform for future progress across all divisions. fit out has continued to win work in its targeted sectors and secured places on two large public sector frameworks. urban regeneration entered into an agreement with the greater london authority to develop a 2.2 hectare site in canning town through its english cities fund (ecf) joint venture and started on site with the fourth phase of its regeneration scheme in warrington. over the past three years we have seen a significant improvement in our overall health and safety performance. as the divisions function independently they are able to pursue innovations that best suit their markets and operations. ■ developing people ■ working together with our supply chain ■ failure to innovate ■ failure to invest in information technology fit out’s new health and safety app (see page 35) and partnership housing’s research into public land (see page 40) are examples of innovative projects undertaken by the divisions. 1 perfect delivery status is granted to projects that meet four customer service criteria specified by each division. as the divisions function independently they are able to pursue innovations that best suit their markets and operations. ■ developing people ■ working together with our supply chain ■ failure to innovate ■ failure to invest in information technology fit out’s new health and safety app (see page 35) and partnership housing’s research into public land (see page 40) are examples of innovative projects undertaken by the divisions. 1 perfect delivery status is granted to projects that meet four customer service criteria specified by each division. “during the year we invested £40m in our regeneration activities.” financial performance 2017 2016 revenue £2,793m £2,562m operating profit – adjusted* £68.6m £48.8m profit before tax – adjusted* £66.1m £45.3m earnings per share – adjusted* 121.1p 84.7p year end net cash £193.4m £208.7m daily average net cash £118.0m £25.0m t otal dividend per share 45.0p 35.0p operating profit – reported £67.4m £47.4m profit before tax – reported £64.9m £43.9m basic earnings per share – reported 118.8p 83.8p * adjusted is defined as before intangible amortisation of £1.2m (2016: intangible amortisation of £1.4m and (in the case of earnings per share) deferred tax credit due to changes in the statutory tax rate of £0.7m). this excludes prospects where confirmation has been received as preferred bidder only, with no formal contract or letter of intent in place. details of our carbon emissions are set out in the health, safety and environment committee report on page 76. timekeepers square, salford (see page 45) morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 ——— 25 strategic report stakeholder engagement in order to ensure that our responsible business approach is both relevant and appropriate, we engage in continuous dialogue with our different stakeholders to help us understand their various needs. to reinforce this two-way approach, our divisions undertake employee surveys of their teams every two years. construction & infrastructure, partnership housing, urban regeneration and property services will all undertake employee engagement surveys in 2018. of the group’s total spend on materials and plant 77% (2016: 71%) is covered by group-wide agreements with our supply chain. we agree payment terms with our supply chain and have procedures in place to minimise late payments. each of our divisions actively engages with its customers and aims where possible to secure work on frameworks or from repeat business. 1 perfect delivery status is granted to projects that meet four customer service criteria specified by each division. they met women with successful careers in the industry, and partnership housing employees from a range of disciplines. 28 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 strategic report operating review — continued building a world-class teaching facility project anglia ruskin university, cambridge £45m project anglia ruskin university’s new science centre provides state-of-the-art facilities for its increasing number of science, technology, engineering and mathematics students. now in operation, the centre will produce 30% less carbon than a conventional building by generating its own electricity and using gas more efficiently. construction was also appointed to a number of other new and renewed public sector frameworks during the year that offer future projects across its core markets. divisional outlook looking ahead, construction & infrastructure will continue to focus on margin improvement and securing higher quality work with the appropriate risk balance. we secured places on three scottish local authority frameworks and a five-year partnership with brighton & hove council. through its partnership with mind, construction & infrastructure hosted the launch of ‘thriving at work’, a government-commissioned report on mental health and employers. an intelligent building will run more efficiently, save energy and have a much reduced life cycle cost. a building certified by well will score highly against their benchmarks in ‘air’, ‘water’, ‘nourishment’, ‘light’, ‘fitness’, ‘comfort’ and ‘mind’. completed design and build projects include a collaborative workspace in croydon for superdrug, new london headquarters of global media company amc networks international, and an activity-based workspace for costa coffee at its recently-opened flagship roastery in basildon, essex. “we are delighted that overbury is continuing to work with us in bringing forward state-of-the-art education and research facilities which will further enhance our standing as a leading global university.” frank rogers king’s college london project director. strategic priorities for 2018 ■ sustainable and profitable growth through contracts with existing customers and selected new opportunities ■ maximise the benefit from msi, creating client interfaces for direct access to the system ■ continue to drive purchase and subcontract savings while creating a more robust supply chain 36 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 strategic report operating review — continued creating job opportunities for local people project basildon borough council, property management service – one year on 30 local residents trained in 2017 80% supply chain locally based a year ago basildon borough council partnered with property services to deliver property management services to over 10,000 homes. market overview there are currently over five million social housing homes in the uk, incurring an annual repairs and maintenance expenditure of £7bn 1 . we are well placed to meet these demands through our msi property management software that drives down the need for responsive repairs. a new urban community project the mill, canton, cardiff £100m partnership 800 new homes “supporting this development goes to the heart of our purpose in helping people access quality affordable housing in an attractive environment.” peter hughes managing director of principality commercial, principality building society 38 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 strategic report operating review — continued a former paper mill is being transformed into one of wales’s largest ever regeneration programmes through a partnership with tirion group and cadwyn housing association, and with financial backing from the principality building society and the welsh government. the new urban village will have a neighbourhood centre, community hall, tree-lined boulevard, river walk, cycle paths and parks. the division is continuing to develop partnerships with housing associations and local authorities, supported by its extensive research completed into underutilised government land. divisional outlook the division’s target is to generate a return on capital employed of over 20%. our continued investment into modern construction methods will help offset any labour shortages brought about by the change. 40 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 strategic report operating review partnership housing — continued trinity walk, woolwich trinity walk is part of the one woolwich programme in partnership with the royal borough of greenwich and pa housing to regenerate three council estates for mixed tenure. over the next four years it will receive funding for a new project skills co- ordinator who will help manage training at its housing developments across south wales and the south west, where it aims to create c40 apprenticeships and 140 work experience placements. these sites will come to market in 2018. create at least two strategic partnerships with housing associations or local authorities in every region most of our regions formed at least two partnerships with housing associations and local authorities. during the year we also focused on securing national partnerships with a variety of registered providers. achieve a minimum strike rate on land and contracting bids of one-in-three our win rates varied during the year. revenue £m 2017 2016 175 156 +12% operating profit — adjusted* £m 2017 2016 10.0 13.4 –25% ■ revenue up 12% ■ return on capital employed 9% ■ good progress on town centre developments ■ received 20 national awards urban regeneration delivered operating profit for the year of £10.0m, which although lower than the prior year, was in line with its schedule of development completions. through its existing joint venture partnerships, significant progress was made in securing new opportunities and progressing current developments. the council also approved investment in a second residential development at st stephen’s road, which will provide 46 high quality homes for market rent. local authorities and nhs trusts without large, in-house estate teams are therefore seeking development skills from the private sector. progress against 2017 strategic priorities create long-term capital platforms with investors in early 2017, we secured £100m of funding from the universities superannuation scheme for our hb villages joint venture. our diversity of offering through construction and regeneration protects the business from cyclical changes in individual markets. based on current trading patterns, a strong balance sheet, high-quality secured order book and visible pipeline of opportunities, our outlook for 2018 looks positive. all businesses remain focused on long-term partnerships, our favoured route to market with more predictable outcomes. residential schemes have shown no short-term impacts since the referendum, with demand continuing to meet expectations. fit out, while more susceptible to gdp fluctuations, has a strong secured order book for 2018 and beyond, providing higher visibility of future workload than in previous years. voluntary staff turnover continues to fall and new people are being recruited who will help us achieve our strategic objectives. the list is not exhaustive but includes those risks currently considered most significant in terms of potential impact. for detailed information on our risk management and internal control governance, see pages 80 to 82. divisional boards risk committee in accordance with our decentralised philosophy, each division identifies the risks facing its business and takes measures to mitigate the impacts. ■ this commitment complements our business model which is designed to provide a mix of earnings across different market cycles. ■ a constrained land bank, targeting option type agreements with owners that limit long-term exposure and boost return on capital employed. ■ largely non-speculative, risk-share development vehicles, subject to viability conditions that minimise any negative impact from market fluctuations. it includes a high proportion of public sector and framework clients with typically healthier risk profiles. ■ we continue to be selective when bidding for contracts, enabled by our strong order book and cash position. ■ we have an enhanced understanding of medium-term pipeline quality, enabling us to predict trends more accurately and adjust our strategy in response. ■ initiatives to select supply chain partners who match our expectations in terms of quality, sustainability and availability. ■ a deliberately large proportion of projects conducted via framework or joint venture arrangements with repeat clients who share our philosophy and values, making predictable outcomes more likely. ■ this commitment complements our business model which is designed to provide a mix of earnings across different market cycles. ■ a constrained land bank, targeting option type agreements with owners that limit long-term exposure and boost return on capital employed. ■ largely non-speculative, risk-share development vehicles, subject to viability conditions that minimise any negative impact from market fluctuations. it includes a high proportion of public sector and framework clients with typically healthier risk profiles. ■ we continue to be selective when bidding for contracts, enabled by our strong order book and cash position. ■ we have an enhanced understanding of medium-term pipeline quality, enabling us to predict trends more accurately and adjust our strategy in response. ■ initiatives to select supply chain partners who match our expectations in terms of quality, sustainability and availability. ■ a deliberately large proportion of projects conducted via framework or joint venture arrangements with repeat clients who share our philosophy and values, making predictable outcomes more likely. ■ our investment in graduate, trainee and apprenticeship schemes is now well established, with a continuing number of participants progressing to more senior positions. ■ construction & infrastructure has embedded its cultural development programme and adopted an innovative approach to fatigue management, known as readiband (see page 31). ■ our investment in graduate, trainee and apprenticeship schemes is now well established, with a continuing number of participants progressing to more senior positions. ■ construction & infrastructure has embedded its cultural development programme and adopted an innovative approach to fatigue management, known as readiband (see page 31). there is a risk that credit checks undertaken in the past may no longer be valid. ■ our current jv project portfolio has not suffered any material impact as a result of recent industry insolvency issues. ■ obtaining financial security where necessary, such as bonds, guarantees, specific preferential payment terms or escrow accounts. ■ working with preferred or approved suppliers wherever possible, which ensures visibility of both financial and workload commitments. ■ monitoring supply chain utilisation to ensure we do not overstress either their finances or operational resource. ■ a group-led disciplined allocation process for significant project-related capital which considers all future requirements and return on investment. ■ monitoring and management of working capital with acute focus on any overdue work in progress, debtors or retentions. ■ reinforcing a culture in the bidding and project teams of focusing on generating positive cash outcomes. ■ cash profiling of key opportunities at an early stage to ensure they meet the group’s expectations. there is a risk that credit checks undertaken in the past may no longer be valid. ■ our current jv project portfolio has not suffered any material impact as a result of recent industry insolvency issues. ■ obtaining financial security where necessary, such as bonds, guarantees, specific preferential payment terms or escrow accounts. ■ working with preferred or approved suppliers wherever possible, which ensures visibility of both financial and workload commitments. ■ monitoring supply chain utilisation to ensure we do not overstress either their finances or operational resource. ■ a group-led disciplined allocation process for significant project-related capital which considers all future requirements and return on investment. ■ monitoring and management of working capital with acute focus on any overdue work in progress, debtors or retentions. ■ reinforcing a culture in the bidding and project teams of focusing on generating positive cash outcomes. ■ cash profiling of key opportunities at an early stage to ensure they meet the group’s expectations. ■ using the tender review process to challenge and mitigate any impacts of rising supply chain costs. ■ construction’s order book contains a greater proportion of repeat client work, meaning we are more likely to achieve sustainable and predictable outcomes via negotiated settlement. ■ reviewing contract terms at tender stage and ensuring variations are approved by the appropriate level of management. ■ using the tender review process to challenge and mitigate any impacts of rising supply chain costs. ■ construction’s order book contains a greater proportion of repeat client work, meaning we are more likely to achieve sustainable and predictable outcomes via negotiated settlement. ■ reviewing contract terms at tender stage and ensuring variations are approved by the appropriate level of management. ■ our employees enjoy working on high profile, innovative projects that provide them with the ability to enhance their knowledge and experience. continued investment has allowed us to focus with confidence on delivering new and improved technology into the business. ■ our it team has seen a significant increase in demand for new technology from operational teams and we foresee this trend continuing. ■ we previously upgraded our group- wide financial software and are now exploring options to add construction- specific features. ■ ongoing strategic projects to improve security include updating our active directory of authenticated users, preparing for compliance with the eu general data protection regulation and iso 27001 accreditation. ■ a centralised it service that improves efficiency, oversight, reporting, security and performance, with localised divisional resource providing business-specific product support. ■ government-accredited security installations and certification to hold protectively marked information, including under the government’s cyber essentials scheme. ■ our employees enjoy working on high profile, innovative projects that provide them with the ability to enhance their knowledge and experience. continued investment has allowed us to focus with confidence on delivering new and improved technology into the business. ■ our it team has seen a significant increase in demand for new technology from operational teams and we foresee this trend continuing. ■ we previously upgraded our group- wide financial software and are now exploring options to add construction- specific features. ■ ongoing strategic projects to improve security include updating our active directory of authenticated users, preparing for compliance with the eu general data protection regulation and iso 27001 accreditation. ■ a centralised it service that improves efficiency, oversight, reporting, security and performance, with localised divisional resource providing business-specific product support. ■ government-accredited security installations and certification to hold protectively marked information, including under the government’s cyber essentials scheme. the directors have compiled cash flow projections on a bottom up basis incorporating each division’s detailed business plans. at group level, the base case financial projections assume modest revenue growth and an improvement in gross margin. the group has no anticipated pension funding requirements as its closed defined benefits scheme is in surplus. simon holds overall responsibility for the infrastructure business which includes aviation, rail, highways, nuclear, energy and water. prior to this, she was general manager of a theatre production company, responsible for budgetary control and contract negotiations. he is also on the board of english cities fund (ecf), a £100m mixed-use regeneration vehicle owned by muse developments, legal & general and homes england. our measures for ensuring good corporate governance practice across the group include regular internal audit reviews, encouraging employees to speak up and taking appropriate action where behaviour does not meet expectations. 4 simon gulliford was unable to attend two board meetings and one hse meeting for personal reasons. following tracey killen’s appointment to the board in may 2017, her induction programme contained each of these elements, detailed further overleaf. board will continue to monitor and engage with potential leadership talent across the group for future succession. the results of voting at general meetings, including proxy directions to withhold votes, are published on our website. michael findlay chairs the committee but is not permitted to chair meetings where his own succession and performance are discussed. 24 april 2017 appointment of tracey killen to the board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees announced, effective 5 may. these activities will include: ■ undertaking further detailed analysis of our data to ascertain whether or not we have any underlying issues that are impacting the percentage of women employed in the group and the percentage in senior positions, and to identify specific actions to address them if appropriate; ■ introducing an e-learning module on inclusivity; ■ introducing anonymised shortlists as part of our recruitment process; ■ tracking underrepresented groups’ employment experience with the group; and ■ undertaking a review of our ethnic pay gap in conjunction with our annual gender pay gap review. all employees have access to an employee assistance programme that provides confidential counselling and support on a variety of issues. environment we are committed to reducing energy consumption across the group and in our supply chain. emissions reported correspond with our financial year and include all areas for which we have operational control in the uk, excluding joint ventures. there is a formal agenda for each meeting to ensure that the committee covers all elements of its remit. in addition a number of sensitivities were considered to determine the effect on headroom against our committed facilities. performance in 2017 2017 was a successful year for the group, with further financial and strategic progress made. long-term incentive plan the executive directors will each receive ltip awards equivalent to 150% of basic salary. 2017 maximum (excluding share price growth) 2017 actual (excluding share price growth) 2017 actual (including share price growth) john morgan fixed pay 564 30% 564 30% 564 22% annual bonus 613 33% 613 33% 613 24% ltip 693 37% 693 37% 1,401 54% total 1,870 1,870 2,578 steve crummett fixed pay 453 31% 453 31% 453 23% annual bonus 489 33% 489 33% 489 24% ltip 522 36% 522 36% 1,055 53% total 1,464 1,464 1,997 84 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 governance remuneration report — continued members during the year patrick de smedt (chair) malcolm cooper simon gulliford tracey killen (from 5 may 2017) liz peace (until 4 may 2017) all members of the committee are independent. retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be disclosed in next year’s annual remuneration report. for 2018, targets will be equivalent to a growth rate of 6-13% per year over the three-year period. any use of committee discretion with respect to waiving or modifying performance conditions will be disclosed in the relevant annual report. pension new executive directors will receive company contributions or cash alternative not greater than the existing policy. the committee may additionally make awards or payments in respect of deferred remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. any such arrangements would typically have an aggregate fair value no higher than the awards being forfeited. key observations we concur with management that the carrying value of land and work in progress is recoverable. key observations there have been no significant changes in the valuation model and we consider management’s underlying assumptions to be within a reasonable range. increasing uncertainty in the construction and business support services industry key audit matter description in january 2018 carillion plc entered liquidation which is expected to have wide ranging impacts on the construction and business support services industry. key observations we concur with management that there are no significant matters identified as a result of these procedures. their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts or disclosures reported in these financial statements. it is estimated that costs of c£3m which were capitalised and not yet fully amortised at 31 december 2017 would have been expensed in earlier years. dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established. subsequent to recognition, finance lease assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. fair value movements are recognised in operating profit and the resulting financial asset is presented as a non-current receivable. prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction on future payments is available. 2 business segments for management purposes, the group is organised into six operating divisions: construction & infrastructure, fit out, property services, partnership housing, urban regeneration and investments. in testing goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment, the recoverable amount of each cgu has been estimated from value-in-use calculations. cash flow forecasts have been determined by using board approved strategic plans for the next five years. in carrying out this exercise, no impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets has been identified. options can be exercised if the eps performance conditions are met over a three-year maturity period. the group does not require collateral in respect of amounts due from construction contract customers or trade receivables. trade and other payables are due to be settled in the group’s normal operating cycle. morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 ——— 137 financial statements notes 2017 £m 2016 £m assets property, plant and equipment 1.3 1.1 investments 1 426.3 426.3 retirement benefit asset 2.8 2.6 non-current assets 430.4 430.0 trade receivables 0.3 0.1 amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – due within one year 67.2 52.6 – due after one year 2.9 2.9 deferred tax asset 0.6 0.8 other receivables 4.8 3.2 prepayments and accrued income 3.9 2.0 cash at bank and in hand 70.2 42.1 current assets 149.9 103.7 total assets 580.3 533.7 liabilities bank overdrafts (17.7) (73.9) finance lease obligations (0.3) (0.3) trade payables (1.5) (0.9) amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings (408.3) (307.0) corporation tax payable (0.9) (6.0) other tax and social security (0.9) (0.2) other payables (2.3) (3.4) accrued expenses (10.1) (7.3) current liabilities (442.0) (399.0) net current liabilities (292.1) (295.3) total assets less current liabilities 138.3 134.7 bank loans – (15.0) finance lease obligations (0.1) (0.4) provision for liabilities 2 (12.6) (11.8) non-current liabilities (12.7) (27.2) net assets 125.6 107.5 capital and reserves share capital 2.2 2.2 share premium account 33.8 33.7 capital redemption reserve 0.6 0.6 special reserve 13.7 13.7 retained earnings 75.3 57.3 shareholders’ funds 125.6 107.5 the company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 december 2017 of £30.6m (2016: £14.5m). registered office classification key: (a) one eleven, edmund street, birmingham, west midlands b3 2hj (b) 1 rutland court, edinburgh eh3 8ey (c) cannon place, 78 cannon street, london ec4n 6af (d) 15th floor, colbalt square, 83-85 hagley road, birmingham b16 8qg (e) c/o, anderson strathern, 1 rutland court, edinburgh eh3 8ey (f) suite 7/3, skypark 1, 8 elliot place, glasgow g3 8ep (g) badenstrasse 3, 4057, basel, switzerland (h) engelbergerstrasse 19, de-79106, freiburg im breisgau, germany (i) eversheds house, 70 great bridgewater street, manchester m1 5es (j) one coleman street, london ec2r 5aa (k) booths park, chelford road, knutsford, cheshire wa16 8qz (l) haweswater house, lingley mere business park, lingley green avenue, great sankey, warrington wa5 3lp (m) first floor north station house, 500 elder gate, milton keynes mk9 1bb (n) willis management (guernsey) limited, po box 384 the albany, south esplanade, st peter port, guernsey gy1 4nf (o) unit 1, barnes wallis court wellington road, cressex business park, high wycombe hp12 3ps classification key: (1) limited liability partnership. 144 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 financial statements notes to the company financial statements — continued 2 provisions insurance £m other £m total £m 1 january 2016 10.9 0.4 11.3 utilised (1.2) – (1.2) additions 1.7 – 1.7 1 january 2017 11.4 0.4 11.8 utilised (0.7) – (0.7) additions 1.5 – 1.5 31 december 2017 12.2 0.4 12.6 insurance provisions comprise the group’s self-insurance of certain risks. morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 ——— 145 financial statements financial calendar 2018 the following dates have been announced: financial year end 31 december 2017 full year results announcement 22 february 2018 publication of 2017 responsible business report mid-april 2018 annual general meeting and trading update 4 may 2018 final dividend: ex-dividend date 26 april 2018 record date 27 april 2018 payment date 21 may 2018 half year results announcement august 2018 interim dividend payable october 2018 trading update november 2018 registrar all administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as lost certificates, changes of address, change of ownership or dividend payments and requests to receive corporate documents by email should, in the first instance, be directed to the company’s registrar and clearly state the shareholder’s registered address and, if available, the full shareholder reference number: by post: computershare investor services plc, the pavilions, bridgwater road, bristol bs99 6zz by telephone: +44 (0) 370 707 1695 lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm (uk time), monday to friday) by email: webcorres@computershare.co.uk online: investorcentre.co.uk registering on the registrar’s website enables you to view your shareholding in morgan sindall group plc including an indicative share price and valuation, check your holding balance and transactions, change your address or bank details and view or request outstanding payments. dividend mandates shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a uk bank or building society account and wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction available from the registrar on request or at investorcentre.co.uk within the ‘downloadable forms’ section. shareholder information 146 ——— morgan sindall group plc annual report 2017 financial statements unsolicited mail, investment advice and fraud the company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and, as a consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail. ■ beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details. electronic voting shareholders can submit proxies for the 2018 agm electronically by logging on to investorcentre.co.uk and selecting ‘share activities’. forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. there are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.