i hope that our executive team went a long way to addressing these concerns at the preliminary results in february. your board discussed all aspects of our perceived risk exposure, with particular emphasis on process safety, political pressures, strategic delivery, cyber- security, capability development and leadership succession. we recognise in our recommended policy an increasing investor discomfort with reward for input if and when performance outcomes are lagging. longer- term reward remains very much aligned to the fortunes of shareholders, with deferred stock- based schemes ensuring that only sustained performance and growth is rewarded. our current remuneration policy would have resulted in significant annual bonuses, though considerably less than last year, even after adjustment for the effects of weather and commodity prices. once again, our people have surpassed my expectations and i would like to thank them for all their hard work. we bade farewell to lesley knox who stepped down after six years of much appreciated service as a non-executive director, for which she has our sincere gratitude. we do not like losing any customers but most of these customer accounts generated very low gross margin and were loss-making at the operating profit level. thirdly, our efficiency programme will deliver an additional estimated saving of £20 per dual fuel customer by 2020. taking all of this together, and recognising that the formula for any potential cap is not yet known, we believe that we can deliver a sustainable energy supply business in the uk with healthy returns under most conceivable scenarios. in performance terms, it is about growing gross margin through our customer relationships, and driving the next phase of cost efficiency. centrica storage following extensive well testing, we concluded that the rough facility was no longer capable of safe injection operations. we have converted some sites to peaking plants, are redeveloping kings lynn a, building new flexible gas fired generation, and installing one of europe’s largest rapid response batteries. we are investing in a portfolio of innovative projects covering areas such as energy storage, electric vehicles, artificial intelligence and blockchain. we are currently trialling our next generation app, for roll-out later this year, which will include a range of enhanced functions, including tailored insights and alerts to help give customers more control over their spending. on one of those visits, british gas installations engineer, adam downend, rang the bell and didn’t get an answer. during 2017 , we continued working to deliver the hospital with end- to-end solutions that improve their energy efficiency and operational performance, while reducing carbon emissions. alan barlow director uk & ireland distributed energy powering britain there has never been a more important time for us to work with businesses and other large energy users to develop solutions for them which can unlock new revenue streams, become a source of competitive advantage and drive growth. our report, ‘powering britain’s economic future’, set out to measure those impacts and demonstrate the benefits of distributed energy solutions. neas has signed a landmark, long-term balancing and hedging contract with europe’s biggest onshore wind farm, markbygden ett in sweden. (2) nps methodology was implemented consistently across the uk, ireland and north america from 2017. prior year figures have been restated where applicable. to continue doing that and generate greater value in society over the long term, we focus on being a responsible business. building on this, a simpler, no-nonsense british gas bill will be introduced during 2018. we are making it easier for customers to control and optimise their energy. since 2010, we have reached nearly 562,000 young people with our curriculum-based lesson plans, helping to improve skills in the key areas of science, technology, engineering and maths (stem). we calculate this has saved our customers nearly 31mtco 2e since 2008 – equivalent to the annual emissions of around nine million uk homes. collaborating to help communities our strategic partnerships are building a better future – whether it’s helping vulnerable households with their energy (see page 34), or tackling bad housing and homelessness. it is estimated that these solutions could help the uk meet decarbonisation targets more effectively, saving £8 billion a year by 2030 (1) . we prohibit all forms of fraudulent conduct or dishonest behaviour and will report any serious matters to the relevant authorities. our engineer customer visit net promoter score (nps) remained high at 67 and we remain highly focused on improving customer service levels in 2018. uk home brand nps reduced by 2pts to + 1 † , reflecting the impact of our standard tariff electricity price increase in september and a broader negative sentiment surrounding uk energy suppliers. total energy customer account holdings fell by 1,376,000, or 10%, during 2017 , including the roll-off of 967 ,000 low-margin collective switch and white-label fixed price tariffs. nps fell by 3 points to + 17 † , reflecting a more negative customer perception of energy suppliers following the fourth quarter price increases. however, electricity customer account holdings increased by 7 ,000, or 2%, as we successfully converted more of our customers to a dual fuel offering. we now have 53,000 sensors deployed across more than 1,800 sites in 30 countries and are collecting around 14 billion data points per month. we have also expanded our distributed solutions offering in north america, which will be a major focus area for growth. as a result, we currently expect 2018 em&t adjusted operating profit to be no more than half the level of 2017 . the transaction creates a leading independent european e&p business with an attractive mix of producing assets and development projects. csl also announced that it had completed a review into the feasibility of returning rough to injection and storage operations. adjusting for these impacts and other similar, but individually immaterial items, the group’s underlying adjusted effective tax rate was 40%. operating profit 2017 2016 year ended 31 december notes business performance £m exceptional items and certain re-measurements £m statutory result £m business performance £m exceptional items and certain re-measurements £m statutory result £m adjusted operating profit/(loss) uk home 819 810 ireland 47 46 north america home 119 93 connected home (95) (50) centrica consumer 890 899 uk business 4 50 north america business 71 221 distributed energy & power (de&p) (53) (26) energy marketing & trading (em&t) 104 161 central power generation (cpg) 35 75 centrica business 161 481 exploration & production (e&p) 184 187 centrica storage (csl) 17 (52) total adjusted operating profit 4(c) 1,252 1,515 interest and taxation on joint ventures and associates 4(c) (7) (48) group operating profit/(loss) 4(c) 1,245 (759) 486 1,467 1,019 2,486 net finance cost 8 (344) – (344) (300) – (300) taxation 9 (191) 352 161 (282) (242) (524) profit/(loss) for the period 710 (407) 303 885 777 1,662 less (profit)/loss attributable to non-controlling interests (12) 10 adjusted earnings 698 895 adjusted operating cash flow £2,069m ▼23% 2016: £2,686 million adjusted earnings £698m ▼22% 2016: £895 million group net debt £2,596m 25% 2016: £3,473 million centrica plc annual report and accounts 2017 | 49 for the european e&p activities, now included within spirit energy, profits were made in norway but losses were incurred in the uk, where tax relief is given at a lower effective rate than the rate applied in norway. in december, spirit energy was formed, combining the group’s remaining european e&p business with that of bayerngas norge as. the executive committee then considers these perspectives alongside broader external and internal factors to create a group-wide set of prioritised risks. increased volatility in commodity prices could provide more opportunities but also give rise to higher collateral costs and/or additional credit risk for both em&t and north america business. • the hses management system is used to manage our controls, focusing on areas of concern including process safety, driving and working at heights. this risk faces increased scrutiny as political and regulatory attention focuses on introducing competition by applying pressure over pricing strategies. • leadership teams in our front-line businesses establish accountability for specific aspects of the customer journey and assess performance against agreed metrics weekly. we rely on these parties to comply not only with contractual terms, but also legal, regulatory and ethical business requirements. prior to centrica, jeff worked in toronto for both kpmg, where he qualified as a chartered accountant, and the boston consulting group. he has considerable knowledge gained in both the retail and insurance sectors, together with a strong understanding of operating within highly regulated businesses. prior to centrica, jeff worked in toronto for both kpmg, where he qualified as a chartered accountant, and the boston consulting group. he has considerable knowledge gained in both the retail and insurance sectors, together with a strong understanding of operating within highly regulated businesses. as a company with over 30,000 employees and millions of customers, these stakeholders’ interests have always been integral to our discussions in board meetings. details of these visits can be found on page 71. board members’ attendance for the year ended 31 december 2017 rick haythornthwaite (chairman) 9/9 iain conn 9/9 jeff bell 9/9 margherita della valle 9/9 mark hanafin 9/9 joan gillman 9/9 stephen hester 9/9 mark hodges 9/9 lesley knox (1) 7/9 carlos pascual (2) 8/9 steve pusey 9/9 scott wheway 9/9 (1) lesley knox was unable to attend two board meetings due to unavoidable diary clashes. read more about supporting our texan colleagues and customers through hurricane harvey page 22 we support the uk government’s gender pay gap reporting requirement. we are focused on closing the gap by building a gender balanced talent pipeline through initiatives to attract, develop and retain women. other senior executives will attend as required to provide information on matters being discussed which fall into their area of responsibility. they are also a key input in the group’s impairment valuation testing and business combination opening balance sheet valuations. we are required to present a new policy for approval at the 2018 annual general meeting (agm) and have been consulting with our major shareholders on proposed changes. we concur with management’s judgement that other than those reversals recognised, previously recorded impairments should not be reversed at this time. for certain re-measurements, we audited the principles management use to determine whether a trade should be recognised as part of ongoing business performance or presented separately. we evaluated whether those agreed principles had been applied consistently by reviewing key contracts and testing a sample of trades to confirm that the accounting treatment was appropriate. additionally, fundamental reserved matters, which require unanimous consent, are judged to represent minority protection rather than decision making rights associated with the relevant activities. accordingly, the costs of delivery are recognised as incurred, when cash was spent or unilateral commitments made, resulting in obligations that could not be avoided. if 2p reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write- down (impairment) of the asset’s book value. year ended 31 december 2017 £m 2016 £m centrica consumer uk home 928 1,053 ireland 62 84 north america home 154 146 connected home (121) (58) 1,023 1,225 centrica business uk business 131 418 north america business 87 285 distributed energy & power (30) (15) energy marketing & trading 262 198 central power generation 58 (1) 508 885 exploration & production 448 655 centrica storage 61 (49) other (i) 29 (30) adjusted operating cash flow 2,069 2,686 dividends received from joint ventures and associates (58) (117) uk pension deficit payments (131) (77) payments relating to exceptional charges (176) (273) margin and cash collateral included in net debt 136 177 net cash flow from operating activities 1,840 2,396 (i) the other segment includes corporate functions. (viii) included within net taxation is a £21 million credit associated with the leased spalding ccgt power station, previously impaired through exceptional items. viu calculations have been used to determine recoverable amounts for all other cgus that include goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles of each field, taking into account forward prices for gas and liquids over the relevant period. (ii) an increased deferred prt asset has been recognised, reflecting a reduction in long-term price forecasts and changes to expected decommissioning costs. (iv) a comprehensive review as part of business transformation activities in north america during 2016 enabled certain deferred tax balances to be adjusted. distributable reserves are calculated on an individual legal entity basis and the ultimate parent company, centrica plc, currently has adequate levels of realised profits within its retained earnings to support dividend payments. for langage and humber there will be a further £8 million cash outflow in 2018 to reflect full settlement of the commodity hedge. goodwill is attributable to enhanced geographical presence, cost savings, synergies, growth opportunities, the assembled workforce and also arises from items such as deferred tax. receivables from residential customers are generally reviewed for impairment on an individual basis once a customer discontinues their relationship with the group. (iii) the sale/purchase contract loss provision relates mainly to a number of european gas transportation contracts and direct energy wind farm power purchase agreements. governance the registered pension schemes are managed by trustee companies whose boards consist of both company-nominated and member- nominated directors. payments made under these contracts are contingent upon actual production and so there is no commitment to a minimum lease payment (2016: nil). more information is included in the remuneration report on pages 78 to 89. deferred matching share scheme (dmss): ● applicable employees: senior executive group. on achievement of performance targets over a three-year period, matching shares are either released immediately or delivered as nil cost options exercisable for seven years. when observable market data becomes available, any remaining deferred day-one gains or losses are recognised within the group income statement. transactional exposure arises from the group’s energy procurement, production and generation activities, where many transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. the group continually reviews its rating thresholds for counterparty credit limits and updates these as necessary, based on a consistent set of principles. wysogotowska 23, 62-081 przezmierowo, wielkpolskie, poland az webworks, eglinton street, cork, republic of ireland ba mariagervej 58b, dk 9500 hobro, denmark bb 90 whitfield street, london, w1t 4ez, united kingdom (i) bc innovation house, dcu innovation campus, 11 old finglas road, glasnevin, dublin, 11, republic of ireland (i) lake acquisitions limited changed its registered office on 9 january 2018 from 40 grosvenor place, london, sw1x 7en, united kingdom to the address listed above. receivables from group undertakings are compared to their recoverable amount, which is also assessed using the same estimated discounted future cash flow for each undertaking as described above. both businesses independently enter into commodity purchases and sales with the market via centrica energy limited (cel), our market-facing legal entity. revenue for domestic supply is after deducting dual fuel discounts where applicable, with the discount split evenly between electricity and gas. however, you are able to attend and vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in your own name.