annual report and accounts 201 7 building the future contents strategic report section one: our business 4 v esuvius at a glance 8 our markets 10 our strategy 12 business model section t wo: our performance 16 chairman’s statement 18 chief executive’s strategic review 20 key performance indicators 22 risk 26 financial review 32 innovation 36 operating review 36 steel flow control 40 advanced refractories 44 digital services 46 foundry 50 board of directors 52 group executive committee section three: our responsibility 56 our principles 60 health and safety 64 sustainability 67 people and community section four: governance 76 chairman’s governance letter 78 governance report 85 audit committee 93 nomination committee 96 directors’ remuneration report 96 remuneration overview 98 remuneration policy 106 annual report on directors’ remuneration 117 directors’ report 121 statement of directors’ responsibilities section five: financial statements 124 independent auditors’ report 130 group income statement 131 group statement of comprehensive income 132 group statement of cash flows 133 group balance sheet 134 group statement of changes of equity 135 notes to the group financial statements 181 company balance sheet 183 notes to the company financial statements 188 five-year summary: divisional results 189 shareholer information 191 glossary financial performance revenue £1 ,683. in doing this, we aim to deliver sustainable, proﬁ table growth and provide our shareholders with a superior return on their investment, whilst providing each of our employees with a safe workplace where he or she is recognised, developed and properly rewarded. it also gave me the opportunity to immerse myself in a culturally very different operation. see our business model on p12- 13 see more about our steel and foundry divisions on p6- 7 37 countries 6 continents 66 production sites 11 , 0 1 0 employees 88 sales ofﬁ ces 17 r&d centres our global presence michelle chapman, hr associate, pittsburgh west, usa 5 17 production sites 3, 1 83 employees 5 r&d centres 21 sales ofﬁ ces 30 production sites 4,4 72 employees 10 r&d centres 34 sales ofﬁ ces 19 production sites 3,355 employees 2 r&d centres 33 sales ofﬁ ces americas emea asia-paciﬁ c £48 7 .0m revenue (2016: £415.3m) 77 .2% steel 22.8% foundry £735.2m revenue (2016: £585.6m) 67 .5% steel 32.5% foundry £46 1 .7 m revenue (2016: £400.5m) 59 .9% steel 40.1% foundry our business steel flow control operating review see p36 advanced refractories operating review see p40 foundry operating review see p46 digital services operating review see p44 the map shows our production, r&d and commercial sites worldwide 6 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 blast furnace convertor and refining ladles steel slab or bloom continuous caster business units steel flow control specialised parts used to protect and control the ﬂ ow of molten metal advanced refractories specialised materials for lining vessels for steel making (furnaces, ladles and tundishes) and other high temperature industries digital services digital products focus on the capture, interpretation and use of key manufacturing data for process management key strengths scale: one of the world’s largest manufacturers in our market technology: leading products and services integration: deep knowledge of customers’ processes allows us to offer bespoke systems innovation: capability to develop new value-adding solutions proximity: effective and efﬁ cient supply to customers steel division overview our customers are steel producers, manufacturers of steel production equipment and other high-temperature industries. convertor and reﬁ ning ladles continuous caster blast furnace for more on technical services , see p44-45 stack repair convertor repair reﬁ ning ladles 6 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 7 pouring into mould mould production our business key strengths product offering: full range of high quality products and services innovation: industry-leading technologies with a focus on continuous innovation integration: detailed knowledge of customers’ processes allows us to provide customised solutions technical support: access to foseco’s extensive application engineering resources proximity: global presence foundry division overview our primary customers are ferrous and non-ferrous foundries serving various end markets, from large bespoke castings to high-volume automotive pieces. the advanced refractories business also supplies other high-temperature industries such as primary aluminium, copper, cement, petrochemical and energy from waste. conversely, ductile iron production requires more sophisticated products to cope with the high shrinkages of metal whilst solidifying. these will enable us to achieve our core strategic objectives of delivering long-term sustainable and proﬁ table growth. the new r&d centre for advanced refractories at visakhapatnam, india, was inaugurated in november 2017 . consequently , there is a wider audience of customers whom we believe can beneﬁ t from them. we also commenced a completely new restructuring programme targeting the foundry division in europe and naft a, the advanced refractories business unit in europe, and group corporate functions, from which we expect £15m of recurring savings by 2020. our customers’ processes require increasing levels of engineering services to reach the demanding levels of safety , accuracy and consistency required by their end-customers’ quality specifications. manufacturing capital we have a global footprint, with 66 production sites based on six continents, giving us close proximity to our customers. environmental beneﬁ ts we develop products that deliver efﬁ ciency and energy savings to our customers. we focus on sustainability in our own business through the efﬁ cient use of energy and natural resources. read more about innovation on p32-35 read more about quality and reliability on p36-48 a growth- generating model with our customer at the centre global presence advanced t echnology knowledge optimised service and consistency manufacturing 200+ technical experts across six continents 17 r&d centres 100+ r&d phds and engineers 66 manufacturing sites in 26 countries 14 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 enno hilgenhoener director solutions group, steel flow control, borken, germany 15 section t wo our performance in this section 16 chairman’s statement 18 chief executive’s strategic review 20 key performance indicators 22 risk 26 financial review 32 innovation 36 operating review 36 steel flow control 40 advanced refractories 44 digital services 46 foundry 50 board of directors 52 group executive committee our performance 16 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 chairman’s statement “w e have outperformed the market and delivered a strong set of results” john mcdonough cbe chairman overview 2017 was a year of good progress for the group as we saw improvements in our trading environment following the challenging market conditions experienced in 2015 and 2016. we also completed a successful transition of chief executive, with the appointment of patrick andré to the role as part of a planned succession process. overall, despite experiencing headwinds relating to signiﬁ cant raw material price increases and some temporary increased inter-company sourcing costs, the group saw a 24.2% increase in reported trading proﬁ t (16. it was the result of a rigorous process, during which both internal and external candidates were considered. throughout the year we faced notable inﬂ ationary pressures from signiﬁ cant price increases in several key raw materials. these initially impacted our advanced refractories business, but subsequently price rises were also experienced in the steel flow control and foundry businesses. we responded proactively to the pressure placed on our business making good progress in recovering cost inﬂ ation through higher selling prices by year-end. we remain conﬁ dent that these will enable us to create value and deliver sustainable proﬁ tability for our shareholders. vesuvius remains an intrinsically cash-generative business and we saw strong cash generation throughout 2017 , ending the year with a stronger balance sheet than in previous years. i would also like to thank françois wanecq for his exceptional commitment in leading vesuvius over the past 1 2 years. thanks to this performance, vesuvius’ global sales in 2017 reached £1,683.9m, an increase of 20.2% over 2016 on a reported basis. as a result, the process of price adjustment will continue into 2018, until realised cost increases have been fully recovered. we remain confident in our ability to further improve working capital management and generate strong operating cash flow. strategic alignment injury to staff and contractors product or application failures lead to adverse ﬁ nancial impact or loss of reputation as technology leader health and safety breach, manufacturing downtime or damage to infrastructure from incident at customer plant customer claims from product quality issues active safety programmes, with ongoing wide-ranging monitoring and safety training quality management programmes including stringent quality control standards, monitoring and reporting experienced technical staff knowledgeable in the application of our products and technology targeted global insurance programme experienced internal legal function controlling third-party contracting our performance 26 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 financial review “signiﬁ cant progress has been made in improving the strength of our balance sheet through a focus on working capital and cash generation during a period of revenue growth” guy young chief financial ofﬁ cer basis of preparation all references in this ﬁ nancial review are to headline performance unless stated otherwise. net ﬁ nance costs in 2017 of £13.9m were £0.6m below 2016. the reduction in ﬁ nance costs was largely due to lower net debt levels that triggered a more favourable interest cost on the company’s revolving credit facility. in absolute terms on a constant currency basis, trade working capital increased by £12.2m, well below the increase in sales and with an improved inventory and creditor position leading to an improvement as a percentage of sales. we do not exclude the results of businesses acquired and disposed from this calculation, as capital efﬁ ciency is an important consideration in our portfolio decisions. during 2017 , cash contributions of £12.6m (2016: £10.8m) were made into the deﬁ ned contribution plans and charged to trading proﬁ t. corporate activity late in 2017 , we made a strategic investment in sapotech oy, a finnish technology company with which we will be jointly developing predictive analytical service offerings to steel customers. acquisition opportunities remain part of our growth strategy and are evaluated on an ongoing basis. guy y oung chief financial ofﬁ cer 28 february 2018 our performance net deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension deﬁ cit £m £1 6.5m -43.9% 17 16.5 16 29.4 15 35.3 32 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 innovation “w e engage the creativity of our people across the entire organisation to drive innovation” alan charnock vice president and chief technology ofﬁ cer vesuvius’ r&d organisation has been a major factor in maintaining our technology leadership position. ideation links experience and knowledge with the situation in front of you, generating new ways to make improvements. it is also illustrated in our t echnical services strategy: developing sensors, software tools and techniques to £33.2m spend on r&d 2016: £28.6m 2.0% % of revenue 2016: 2.0% 14 . 5 % % of new product sales 1 2016: 14.2% 1. sales of products launched within the last 5 years as a % of total revenue 33 our performance katarzyna szafraniec, quality engineer , poland “ as a quality engineer i continue to draw on my r&d experience.” having studied chemical t echnology at university, i joined vesuvius in 201 1, beginning as a r&d assistant at the vesuvius site in skawina, poland working on refractory material. in this role, i collaborated with engineers across numerous projects, conducting physical and chemical analysis. innovation is the creative process of converting ideas into value-creating technologies or creating value by doing things differently. our new product introduction (‘npi’) process has been in place for three years, enabling us to identify and focus on the ideas and projects which are most aligned with our strategic plans, injecting greater rigour into decision-making with a stage gate approach. the ideation platform is presently targeted only at new products and manufacturing processes, but our intention is to broaden its scope to include ideas on all topics for all functions, each with their own review process. the r&d resource allocation to technology projects has steadily increased in all business units. the team monitors technology trends across a broad range of industries, both inside and outside our own markets. these can then be used by r&d departments across our business to foster new product or process development projects. global research & development centres barlborough uk bettsville usa enschede netherlands feignies france ghlin belgium pittsburgh usa suzhou china visakhapatnam india our performance 36 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 operating review steel flow control vesuvius’ flow control business unit, supplies the global steel industry with consumable ceramic products used to contain and control the ﬂ ow of molten steel in the continuous casting process. avoiding atmospheric contact is crucial as it signiﬁ cantly reduces contamination and oxidation levels in the steel. continuing innovation allows us to offer enriched solutions that create additional value in our customers’ processes. the additional projects identiﬁ ed include a focus on industrial efﬁ ciencies in brazil and india. this positions vesuvius well to support our customers in facing the future challenges of automation and a greater focus on quality. our investment in, and exclusive distribution agreement with sapotech oy, a finnish technology company offering optical defect detection services and real-time data on steel surface quality, now places us well to address the requirements for data management at our customers. in addition, we launched our new flex cold start™ t undish shroud, which allows customers to operate their casters with more ﬂ exibility in terms of sequence length and daily operation as well as reducing their waste and cost. we can then compare this with the data generated from our computational fluid dynamic simulation capabilities. flat steel typically uses three times as much vesuvius products by value and as a result we believe the accessible market for vesuvius’ flow control business in china could grow signiﬁ cantly in the long term. our current strong position in this market will help us to beneﬁ t from these trends. roel van der sluis president, steel flow control our performance efﬁ cient technology transfer improves customer production reliability and reduces cost joe gu, production manager of slide gate refractories and purge plugs, north asia the challenge the castrip® process is a recent technology developed to directly cast steel in a thin strip. our solution a t ransfer of technology team was formed inside vesuvius before the ﬁ rst castrip® machine commenced production in china. in addition, vesuvius’ advanced refractories business services other high-temperature industries such as primary aluminium, copper, cement, petrochemicals and energy from waste. as a result of my work there, i was offered the opportunity to become the application specialist for brick products, based at our site at pittsburgh, united states, but also working in steel manufacturing plants across america. i then moved on to work as an application specialist for ladles, with a focus on ladle bottoms, working with customers in their steel mills to ensure that they were deriving the maximum beneﬁ t from our products. 42 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 operating review continued advanced refractories integrated material supply , robotic installation equipment and laser scanning for electric arc furnace maintenance the challenge vesuvius has a historically well- established business in electric arc furnace maintenance, using entirely manual application techniques. this outperformance relative to steel volume growth was supported by increased customer interest in our value-creating solutions and the successful launch of new products such as our supergard™ t undish refractory line, which is a patented tundish lining product for improving steel quality. we have made major progress in recovering this cost inﬂ ation through higher selling prices. this process of price adjustment will continue into 2018, until realised cost increases have been fully recovered. this conﬁ rms our ability to recover raw material cost inﬂ ation through price rises over time. an increased focus on value-added solutions in niche segments like steel ﬁ nishing also allowed us to achieve good momentum during the period. in the developed markets of europe and north america, we are experiencing a greater demand for higher quality refractories. achieving consolidation at the expense of margins will not meet our goals for value creation. our long-standing presence and local manufacturing capabilities position us well to take advantage of future growth opportunities in india. there are two key elements of vesuvius’ t echnical services strategy: ﬁ rstly, the digital services business unit, which focuses on incubating our data capture technologies, and, secondly, the other business units which play a critical role in integrating these products into our broader consumables offering as well as ensuring customer access. this allows customers to better understand temperature correlations with steel quality, reduce energy costs and optimise caster speed. in addition, mould audit services, using our unique xma t™ device, in combination with computerised ﬂ ow modelling, provide our steel customers with an ‘expert eye’ inside the mould, allowing them to gain an intimate understanding of liquid behaviour as steel is cast by using each of these technologies, customers can focus on critical parameters within their processes, enabling them to reﬁ ne their production methods to improve quality, lower production costs and maximise efﬁ ciency. in our process metrix lasers business, we had a record year of sales with shipments up over 50% versus 2016. avemis, our mould level sensors and continuous temperature measurement products, also had a strong year with revenues up c.30%. for advanced refractories, laser technology business process metrix has a key role to play in the development of its technical services offering. t o reduce operating costs further, we have initiated an investment programme to automate the manufacturing process. the amount of data generated by sensors is growing exponentially, so allied with this approach, we intend to focus on solutions for converting this data into valuable decision support information, maximising the value our various sensor technologies bring to customers. our exothermic feeding aids also provide a secondary heat source which can also control metal cooling, minimising the adverse effects of shrinkage during solidiﬁ cation > crucibles these are used in a wide range of melting and holding applications for non-ferrous alloys, particularly aluminium, copper and zinc. we were also successful in gaining market share as a result of new product introductions. we also focused on improved succession planning with several key new employees joining during the year. a new ﬁ lter production line was launched in india and is expected to be completed by q3 2018. the availability of a local ﬁ lter source will improve customer service levels and support increased market penetration. these factors tend to correlate with the level of industrial development within a given market. therefore, we see signiﬁ cant growth potential in markets where industrial development continues to gather momentum, particularly certain parts of eastern europe and asia. t o position foseco to beneﬁ t from this trend we are expanding our network of technical sales staff and application engineers within developing markets, ensuring that customers there have local access to the same high levels of expertise and technical support in all markets. we are positioning ourselves to beneﬁ t from this growth with a new manufacturing site in monterrey. jane is a chartered accountant and has strong experience gained in the shipping industry of working with highly international teams. he served as chairman of the remuneration committee of t omkins plc from 2007 to 2010. john has a strong engineering background and considerable international commercial and listed company experience, which enable him ably to lead the vesuvius board. douglas has signiﬁ cant ﬁ nancial experience, having served as finance director of imi plc, the global engineering group, from 2006 to 2015. prior to this, he held a number of senior ﬁ nance and general management positions at glaxosmithkline plc, which he joined in 1983, previously having worked at price waterhouse. holly has more than 35 years’ global industry and ﬁ nancial experience, having spent the early part of her career at columbia gas distribution company and consolidated natural gas corporation in a variety of management roles which included four years based in australia. other appointments: holly currently serves as a non-executive director of the aes corporation and british american t obacco p.l.c. a n r guy young chief financial ofﬁ cer appointed: 1 november 2015 career experience: guy was appointed as a director and chief financial ofﬁ cer of the company on 1 november 2015. prior to joining the group, from january 2011 to october 2015, he served as chief financial ofﬁ cer of t armac and latterly lafarge t armac, the british building materials company. prior to joining ab custos he had been a partner of nordic capital and mckinsey & company. our commitment to deliver consistent products and services gives them the level of conﬁ dence they require. ensuring global accessibility, employees can now speak with operators in any of our 29 functional languages. no individual is ever penalised or disadvantaged for reporting a legitimate concern in good faith. for complex issues, formal investigation plans are drawn up, and support from external experts is engaged where necessary. vesuvius engages with third-party sales agents, many of whom operate in countries where we do not have a physical presence. in relation to the repetitive reports, even though these did not identify compliance concerns, steps were taken to ensure that changes were implemented locally, including in certain cases entity-wide management training, recommunication of policies and reinforcement of our business culture, supported by senior management oversight. this included detailed review of our due diligence activities for active sales agents across the group. the review of our due diligence processes will continue to be extended on a risk-based approach during 2018 and beyond. we expect everyone to participate positively in the task of preserving workplace health and safety. using a train-the-trainer approach, t urbo s training sessions are tailored to the audience and their activities. this ensures that all non-standard work conducted in our facilities, whether by vesuvius employees or contractors, is the subject of a pre-commencement risk assessment and a formal permission to commence activity, setting out the safety requirements. vesuvius has developed machinery safety training with an outside industry leader, pilz gmbh & co, a company specialising in safe automation technology. we are now extending recognised best practices throughout the group through a series of machinery assessments and training programmes. as part of the continuing t urbo s initiative: > senior executives regularly lead safety tours at all locations > severe accidents are formally reviewed by the group executive committee > employees are routinely engaged in safety audits > we invest signiﬁ cantly in safety training for all employees, irrespective of their roles and functions within our business > all employees are expected to routinely raise and implement safety improvement opportunities; we focus on the number of implemented ideas > safety standards are continually updated, translated and deployed throughout vesuvius > all injuries and dangerous occurrences are analysed locally, with a formal presentation of ﬁ ndings, root causes and improvement actions cascaded through management. they identiﬁ ed safety improvement actions and a plan was put in place to complete these. one piece of equipment which could not be made compliant, a friction press, was dismantled. in germany, dust control, turbo s, permit to work and 5s lean training were all completed. in the usa, 11 production employees and 19 nafta hse professionals were trained on machinery safety, by pilz. the team developed a road safety action plan, safe driving policy, training for speciﬁ c categories of drivers and updated car pool process. our t ake 2 initiative ensures that employees think again before performing any unusual or non-standard activity. the lost time injuries frequency chart shows how injuries have been reduced and how that reduction has been maintained through a combination of a behaviour- based approach to safety and the implementation of physical safeguards. daily 5s audits led by team leaders ensure continuous improvement of working conditions and promote a safer workplace. this detailed analysis of normalised data is used by vesuvius’ senior engineers to drive improvements across the business. process metrix shipped a record number of laser systems in 2017 with the new hyperion tm software. our solution foseco has developed a new, multi-part and highly insulating lining made of insural material. thermal optimisation and reject reduction are key factors in the processes for which we supply solutions. much care is taken to ensure that corporate hr initiatives are properly communicated and implemented at local level, with the cooperation of identiﬁ ed employee representatives. special attention is paid in addressing matters such as gender balance and the employment of a diverse workforce. t o meet the demands of the business and add rigour to our employee value proposition, we have launched a number of programmes to assist our employees in growing their careers through utilising world-class learning opportunities. wings this is the vesuvius middle management development programme aimed at those who manage other managers. participants on this programme are those identiﬁ ed as being potential future senior management of the group. these hr4hr graduates will act now as catalysts for implementing innovative recruitment and talent identiﬁ cation techniques across the business. we have adopted the willis t owers watson job grading model, which enables us to compare roles and deploy a structured assessment methodology across countries and specialisms to ensure that roles are rewarded consistently throughout the organisation. vesuvius is committed to creating reward systems which are transparent and objective, where employees receive equal pay for work of equal value, regardless of their age, race, disability, sexual orientation, gender, marital, civil partnership or parental status, religion or beliefs. people and community continued following an early career in construction and refractory manufacturing, i joined vesuvius canada as a sales account manager in 2000. i was gradually promoted to the roles of district manager and steel sales manager , before becoming general manager of the canadian business in 2005. my ﬁ rst international posting was to suzhou, china where i became vice president advanced refractories , asia paciﬁ c. there i oversaw all of our advanced refractories operations for the asia paciﬁ c region, covering korea, japan, t aiwan and china, including our chinese joint venture with angang steel. “my ﬁ rst international posting was to suzhou, china” bill cousineau, vice president advanced refractories, naft a al ced le tes n e k and ng ent a 69 global mobility although vesuvius is active worldwide, we keep the number of international assignments as low as possible as we believe that local vesuvius companies should be managed and staffed by local personnel. in addition to local employee representation we operate a european works council (‘ewc’) that contains representatives from each of the eu countries where vesuvius has employees. on 14 december 2017 , we gathered for our ﬁ fth awards ceremony to celebrate and acknowledge the efforts of 74 employees. south america 1,009 c. india 838 g. south asia 296 d. nafta 2,174 a. salaried 3,983 b. hourly 5,897 c. temps 1, 130 a c b d e f employees by business unit a. flow control 4,302 d. digital services 526 b. foundry 2,836 e. head ofﬁ ce 49 c. advanced ref 2,474 f. others 823 our responsibility in the netherlands, foseco nederland bv operates an employee charity donation competition. in june 2017 , marloes goorhuis won the award for her contribution to an organisation named meereizen. in addition, vesuvius france sa again worked with feignies’ local ﬁ re brigades, this time conducting four major exercises to learn more about managing chemical risk at high temperatures. since then, the project has grown to include jump rope and music teams, with 30–40 children in each team. awards are granted globally without regard to race, colour, creed, religion, sexual orientation, age, gender, disability or national origin. he initially joined the viso team as a product specialist, putting his technical skills to good use developing innovative solutions for customers. showing strong leadership capabilities, manuel moved into a managerial role, and now heads south america’s growing digital services team from the sao paulo ofﬁ ce. 2002: joined vesuvius as viso specialist, andean region 2008: sales manager, steel 2012: general and country manager, steel, andean region 2017: south america director sales & marketing, digital services following his graduation from university, rafael has enjoyed a successful ﬁ ve year engineering career at vesuvius. 2013: joined ecil met t ec as technical salesman 2014: avemis product specialist 2016: worldwide product manager, hydrogen systems & probes 2017: global product manager, hydrogen systems, hardware & instruments “v esuvius has really welc omed me and m y c ompan y into the international group” “my work is ex citing, we are building the future together” “ v esuvius gave me the opportunity to manage worldwide pr ojects and work with global teams” site: resende, brazil carolina campello bezerra campos, managing director, vesuvius fluxes site: piedade, brazil manuel delﬁ no, sales & marketing director, digital services, south america site: piedade, brazil rafael lorenzo jacob, global product manager hydrogen systems, hardware and instruments, digital services people and community continued 73 “ i c an use the knowledge i ac quired in the s teel division to beneﬁ t the foundry business” four years after university, benny joined vesuvius as a sales engineer, applying his technical expertise to enhance product excellence for customers across china. 1999: joined vesuvius as sales engineer 2001: slide gate refractories (‘sgr’)/purging plugs (‘pp’) product specialist 2006: sgr/pp t echnical director 2012: general manager, wg 2016: foundry manager, china “ i am pr oud to be able to share m y technic al expertise with m y c olleagues ar ound the world” site: changshu, china benny y ang, bu manager, foundry china jerry joined vesuvius on an internship, learning about the value of it to every part of the company. always seeking to understand the needs of other functions, he soon built a strong culture around him. like many other industrial engineering companies, we know that our organisation must work harder to attract, develop and retain talented women. the development of senior management level talent, and succession plans for them, was again noted as being a key area for focus in 2018, with new training programmes implemented, and continuing initiatives in place to ensure greater board access to these high-potential individuals. it is anticipated that the board will convene on seven occasions during 2018, holding ad hoc meetings to consider non-scheduled business if required. during 2017 , she stepped down from all but one of her board appointments, and now only serves as a non-executive director on two other boards, having taken on a new non-executive position at british american t obacco plc in july 2017 . having reviewed this, the board believes that hock’s additional commitments do not prevent him from properly fulﬁ lling his duties as a non-executive director of vesuvius plc. the 2016 evaluation had highlighted several priorities for 2017 , including strategy and board succession, and had also identiﬁ ed areas for ongoing improvement, including greater efforts to support the development of staff members below senior management level. it was agreed that the board would focus on this during its oversight of senior management. in 2017 , other than one institutional shareholder, no requests for discussions were received from shareholders following this communication. he was the finance director of imi plc for nine years prior to that and has worked in various ﬁ nancial roles throughout his career. this approach was judged to be effective and has been integrated into the audit committee schedule going forward. other provisions the committee has been made aware of a number of potential exposures and claims arising from ongoing litigation, product quality issues, employee disputes, restructuring, environmental matters, onerous leases, indirect tax disputes and indemnities or warranties outstanding for disposed businesses. subsequent to this challenge, certain insured liabilities have been represented in the balance sheet on a gross basis. where the outcome of an existing issue is uncertain, or where no reliable estimate of the potential liability can be made, no provision has been made and appropriate disclosure is included under contingent liabilities (note 34). this review indicated an appropriate control environment, with identiﬁ ed improvement actions under careful management by the group. a third of operating units are now subject to internal audit twice in every three-year period, and internal audit annually audits each of the large operating entities located in germany, the us, china, mexico and brazil. additionally, regular meetings are held with each business unit president to discuss the progress against high-priority issues. in addition, pwc will be required to rotate the audit partner every ﬁ ve years. these risk areas are discussed in the signiﬁ cant issues and material judgements comments above. group companies are not permitted to use the external auditor for any “prohibited non-audit services” as speciﬁ ed by the uk financial reporting council’s (frc’s) revised ethical standard 2016, unless subject to a permitted derogation. holly koeppel was supported in undertaking her own due diligence on the company and meeting with its advisers. the committee recognised that the business needed an individual who had a proven track record of enhanced strategic thinking and managing complexity, who also excelled at managing and developing relationships with a cross-section of people. awards will vest in april 2018. other key decisions made by the committee for 201 7 key decisions made by the committee in 2017 included: > review, consideration and approval of an appropriate remuneration package for patrick andré, our new chief executive. > the remuneration policy approved in 2017 states that, whilst an individual’s performance is reviewed annually, changes to base salary are normally appraised over a two or three-year period. opportunity there is no formal maximum as beneﬁ t costs can ﬂ uctuate depending on changes in provider, cost and individual circumstances. performance none annual incentive alignment/purpose incentivises executive directors to achieve key short-term ﬁ nancial and strategic targets of the group. operation normally 33% of any annual incentive earned by executive directors will be deferred into awards over shares under the vesuvius deferred share bonus plan which normally vest after at least three years, other than in speciﬁ ed circumstances outlined elsewhere in this policy. rewards executive directors for achieving the strategic objectives of growth in shareholder value and earnings. guy y oung is employed as chief financial ofﬁ cer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with vesuvius plc dated 16 september 2015. each executive director’s appointment is terminable by vesuvius on not less than 12 months’ written notice, and by each executive director on not less than six months’ written notice. 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 patrick andré, chief executive minimum 100% £692k 54% 29% 27% 44% £2,398k 26% 20% £1,282k on-target maximum guy young, cfo minimum 100% £456k 57% 32% 31% 37% £1,418k 27% 16% £806k on-target maximum fixed elements annual variable elements long- term variable elements remuneration illustrations £000 governance 102 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 remuneration policy for non-executive directors the company seeks to appoint non-executive directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a relevant industry and geographical sector, to support diversity of expertise at the board and match the wide geographical spread of the company’s activities. all non-executive directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the company’s articles of association. no eligibility for bonuses, retirement beneﬁ ts or to participate in the group’s employee share plans. in addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, the committee may consider buying out terms, incentives and any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer that an individual forfeits in accepting an appointment with vesuvius. governance 104 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 executive directors’ contracts do not contain any change of control provisions; they do contain a duty to mitigate should the director ﬁ nd an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination. event timing calculation of vesting/payment annual incentive plan good leaver paid at the same time as to continuing employees. vesuvius share plan good leaver on normal vesting date (or earlier at the committee’s discretion). remuneration arrangements for executive directors draw on the same elements as those for other employees – base salary, ﬁ xed beneﬁ ts and retirement beneﬁ ts – with performance- related pay extending down into the management cadres and beyond. individual percentages of ﬁ xed versus variable remuneration and participation in share-based structures decline as seniority decreases. for certain senior and middle managers, awards are made under the vesuvius medium t erm plan (‘mtp’). as chairman of the committee, jane hinkley welcomes shareholder engagement and is available for any discussions investors wish to have on remuneration matters. general the committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this policy report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment. the target range is set to ensure that annual incentives are only paid out at maximum for signiﬁ cantly exceeding performance expectations. guy young summary of objective summary outcome develop people and team > developed updated functional strategy and plans, including full team evaluation > developed updated succession plans for key ﬁ nance functions > drove performance across the team improve working capital management process > implemented new supplier ﬁ nance scheme > introduced clearer working capital management and reporting processes, with demonstrable impact on working capital performance manage the implementation of shared service strategy > delivered strategy. the use of these performance measures is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders’ interests. as a result on 1 september 2017 , he was granted an additional performance share award of 42,257 shares. 6. full details of directors’ shareholdings and incentive awards are given in the company’s register of directors’ interests, which is open to inspection at the company’s registered ofﬁ ce during normal business hours. these principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis, without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, belief, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law. the names and functions of the directors of vesuvius plc are as follows: john mcdonough cbe chairman patrick andré chief executive guy y oung chief financial ofﬁ cer christer gardell non-executive director hock goh non-executive director jane hinkley non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee douglas hurt non-executive director, senior independent director and chairman of the audit committee holly koeppel non-executive director on behalf of the board guy y oung chief financial ofﬁ cer 28 february 2018 statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and financial statements governance 12 2 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 section five financial statements in this section 124 independent auditors’ report 130 group income statement 131 group statement of comprehensive income 132 group statement of cash flows 133 group balance sheet 134 group statement of changes in equity 135 notes to the group financial statements 181 company balance sheet 183 notes to the company financial statements 188 five- y ear summary: divisional results 189 shareholder information 191 glossary 12 3 financial statements adam liszka, operations director advanced refractories, naft a “i relocated to the uae to help set up our ras al khaimah facility” see more about vesuvius careers people and community on p67- 73 my career with vesuvius began in poland in 2001, when i joined the skawina brick plant as production coordinator. where appropriate, we veriﬁ ed that disclosure is included within the annual report of this. the group consolidates ﬁ nancial information through reporting from its components which include divisions and functions at these sites. the audit scope, including germany, comprised 20 components for which we determined that full-scope audits would need to be performed and nine components for which speciﬁ c audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed. based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the ﬁ nancial statements as a whole as follows: group ﬁ nancial statements company ﬁ nancial statements overall materiality £7 .6 million £7 .6 million how we determined it 5% of proﬁ t before tax and separately reported items (‘headline proﬁ t before tax’) 1% of total assets, capped to the level of group overall materiality rationale for benchmark applied we believe that proﬁ t before tax and separately reported items (‘headline proﬁ t before tax’) provides us with an appropriate basis for determining our overall group materiality given it is a key measure used by users of the ﬁ nancial statements. these policies have been consistently applied to all of the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 138 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 3. accounting policies and critical accounting judgements and estimates (continued) (b) deferred tax (continued) the group also has losses and other timing differences, also analysed in note 10.4, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in these ﬁ nancial statements, relating either to loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic beneﬁ t of the timing difference is not probable or to where the timing difference is of such a nature that its value is dependent on certain types of proﬁ t being earned, such as capital proﬁ ts. tcja was introduced very rapidly, and consequently there is much uncertainty about how some of the provisions will operate. as guidance is given by the us t reasury department on how these, and other provisions of tcja, are to operate, vesuvius’ tax position may be impacted. deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁ ts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. the group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices. continuing losses, or insufﬁ ciency of taxable proﬁ t to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary, could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses. eligibility for this rate is reviewed on a regular basis by the chinese tax authority, and was worth approximately £0.9m in 2017 (2016: £1.0m). without that beneﬁ t, the group’s effective tax rate on headline performance would have been 0.6% higher in 2017 (2016: 0.8%). 1 accounting policy (continued) freehold land is not depreciated, as it has an inﬁ nite life. goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, with impairment testing carried out annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated may be impaired. the cash ﬂ ows are discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount rates, which represent each cgu’s weighted average cost of capital (wacc). in assessing goodwill for impairment, management performed its annual test at 31 october 2017 which is consistent with the prior year. cost comprises expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads based on normal activity levels. 20.2 analysis of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 2017 2016 assets £m liabilities £m assets £m liabilities £m derivatives not designated for hedge accounting purposes 0.3 — —(0.9) total derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 0.3 — —(0.9) all of the fair values shown in the table above are classiﬁ ed under ifrs 13 as level 2 measurements which have been calculated using quoted prices from active markets, where similar contracts are traded and the quotes reﬂ ect actual transactions in similar instruments. notes to the group financial statements continued 15 9 financial statements 24. retained earnings reserve for own shares £m share option reserve £m other retained earnings £m total retained earnings £m as at 1 january 2016 (38.0) 3.6 2,380.9 2,346.5 proﬁ t for the year — — 56.9 56.9 remeasurement of deﬁ ned beneﬁ t liabilities/assets — — 9.5 9.5 recognition of share-based payments — 1.7 — 1.7 release of share option reserve on exercised and lapsed options 2.9 (2.4) (0.5) — income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income — — (0.7) (0.7) dividends paid (note 26) — — (43.9) (43.9) as at 1 january 201 7 (35. a proposed ﬁ nal dividend for the year ended 31 december 2017 of £33.8m, equivalent to 12.5 pence per ordinary share, is subject to approval by shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these ﬁ nancial statements. financial risk management 27.1 accounting policy (a) non-derivative ﬁ nancial instruments loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. this is achieved, where necessary, by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts (‘fx swaps’). 1 other (0.5) 13.4 2.2 1.3 18.0 34.4 as at 31 december 2016 (1.4) 14.7 16.2 1.4 15.3 46.2 notes to the group financial statements continued 16 2 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 27 . no reliable basis exists for allocation of the plans’ obligations and plan assets to individual employer participants. deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension plans other post- retirement beneﬁ t plans £m uk £m us £m germany £m row £m total £m 2017 total £m equities 68.9 9.7— 2.9 81.5— 81.5 bonds 191.8 38.5 — 2.0 232.3 — 232.3 annuity insurance contracts 276.1—— 17.8 293.9— 293.9 other assets 43.5 1.6— 4.0 49.1— 49.1 fair value of plan assets 580.3 49.8— 26.7 656.8— 656.8 present value of funded obligations (488.9) (70.4) — (40.0) (599 .3) — (599 .3) 91.4 (20.6) — (13.3) 57 .5 — 57 .5 present value of unfunded obligations (1.9) (1 1.6) (49 .4) (4.6) (67 .5) (6.5) (7 4.0) t otal net surpluses/(liabilities) 89.5 (32.2) (49.4) (1 7 .9) (10.0) (6.5) (16.5) recognised in the group balance sheet as: net surpluses 91.4 — — 1.0 92.4 — 92.4 net liabilities (1.9) (32.2) (49 .4) (18.9) (102.4) (6.5) (108.9) t otal net surpluses/(liabilities) 89.5 (32.2) (49.4) (1 7 .9) (10.0) (6.5) (16.5) notes to the group financial statements continued 17 0 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 28. employee beneﬁ ts (continued) 28.7 balance sheet recognition (continued) based on a detailed assessment performed, none of the ifric 14 restrictions are applicable and, therefore, the surplus is recognised. for grants with market-based conditions attached to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model. included within trade payables in the table above is £1.8m (2016: £nil) subject to a supplier ﬁ nancing agreement. the opening balance has been restated by £7 .9m to present a provision for which an associated insurance asset exists. where insurance cover exists for any of these known or probable costs, a related asset is recognised in the group balance sheet only when its value can be reliably measured by management. in assessing the probable costs and realisation certainty of provisions, or related assets, reasonable assumptions are made. a number of lawsuits have been withdrawn, dismissed or settled and the amount paid, including costs, in relation to this litigation has not had a material adverse effect on vesuvius’ ﬁ nancial position or results of operations. company legal name registered ofﬁ ce address jurisdiction advent process engineering inc. 333 prince charles drive, welland, ontario, l3b 5p4, canada canada (ontario) avemis sas saint symphorien sur coise (69590) au 2, hotel d’entreprises, zi grange eglise, france france bmi refractory services inc. 600 n 2nd street, suite 401, harrisburg, pa 17101- 1071, united states us (pennsylvania) brazil 1 limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england cookson dominicana, srl km 7 1/2, autopista san isidro, ediﬁ cio modelo a, zona franca san isidro, santo domingo oeste, dominican republic dominican republic cookson investments (jersey) limited 13 castle street, st helier, je4 5ut , jersey jersey cookson jersey limited 13 castle street, st helier, je4 5ut , jersey jersey east moon investment (hk holding) company limited 36/f t ower t wo times square, 1 matheson street, causeway bay, hong kong hong kong company legal name registered ofﬁ ce address jurisdiction flo-con holding, inc. ct corporation, 1209 orange street, the corporation t rust company, wilmington, de 19801, united states us (delaware) flo-con systems, llc ct corporation, 208 south lasalle street, chicago, cook county, illinois, il 60604, united states us (illinois) foseco (fs) limited 1 midland way, central park, barlborough links, derbyshire, s43 4xa, england england foseco (gb) limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england foseco (jersey) limited 44 esplanade, st helier, je4 9wg, jersey jersey foseco (mrl) limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england foseco (rul) limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england foseco (uk) limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england foseco canada limited 181 bay street, suite 1800, t oronto, ontario, m5j 2t9, canada canada (ontario) foseco espanola sa 5, barrio elizalde, izurza, bizkaia, 48213, spain spain notes to the group financial statements continued 17 6 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 company legal name registered ofﬁ ce address jurisdiction foseco foundry (china) limited room 819, shekou zhaoshang building, nanshan district, shenzhen, china china foseco fundición holding (espanola), s.l. 1, me linh point t ower, no 2 ngo duc ke, ben nghe ward, dist 1, ho chi minh, vietnam vietnam hgac participações limitada street duque de caxias, 563 room 2, centro, barueri, sp , 06401-010, brazil brazil isid limited beaver house, 23- 38 hythe bridge street, oxford, ox1 2ep , england england j.h. france refractories company ct corporation, 1209 orange street, the corporation t rust company, wilmington, de 19801, united states us (delaware) john g. stein & company limited 1 midland way, central park, barlborough links, derbyshire, s43 4xa, england england mainsail insurance company limited canon’s court, 22 victoria street, hamilton, hm 12, bermuda bermuda mascinco empreendimentos e participações ltda avenida brasil, 49550 - parte, distrito industrial de palmares – campo, grande – cep: 23065-480, rio de janeiro, rj, brazil brazil mastercodi industrial ltda avenida giovanni gronchi, 5174, suíte 1 1, vila andrade, 05724-002, são paulo, state of são paulo, brazil brazil mercajoya, s.a. capitán haya, 56 - 1ºh, 28020 madrid, spain spain metal way equipamentos metalurgicos ltda estrada santa isabel, 7655 km37 , bairro do una, itaquaquecetuba, são paulo – sp , cep: 08580 000, brazil brazil micro jewels limited 10 frere felix de valois street, port louis, mauritius mauritius minerals separation limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england new foseco (uk) limited 1 midland way, central park, barlborough links, derbyshire, s43 4xa, england england premier refractories (belgium) s.a. 17 rue de douvrain, ghlin, 701 1, belgium belgium process metrix, llc 6622 owens drive, pleasanton, ca 94588, united states us (california) pt foseco indonesia 2/5, jalan rawagelam, kawasan industry, 2/no.5 pulogadung, jakarta timur, 13930, indonesia indonesia pt foseco t rading indonesia 2/5, jalan rawagelam, kawasan industry, 2/no.5 pulogadung, jakarta timur, 13930, indonesia indonesia 35. investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (continued) 35. 1 investment in subsidiaries (continued) financial statements 177 company legal name registered ofﬁ ce address jurisdiction realisations 789, llc ct corporation, 1209 orange street, the corporation t rust company, wilmington, de 19801, united states us (delaware) s g blair & company limited 1 midland way, central park, barlborough links, derbyshire, s43 4xa, england england sert -metal sas 3, avenue de l’europe, parc, ‘les pivolles’, decines-charpieu 69150, france france sidermes inc. 175, calixa-lavallée verchêres, québec j0l2r0, canada canada sidermes latinoamericana ca zona industrial, san vicente av., anton phillips grupo industrial, san vicente local 4, maracay, venezuela venezuela sidermes s.a. urquiza 919 piso 2 rosario santa fe, argentina, cp 2000 argentina sidermes s.p.a. via mantova 10, 20835 muggiò (mb), italy italy sidermes sensores termicos do brasil l tda estrada municipal pdd 436, s/n, prédio ‘c’, bairro da boa vista, municipio de piedade, estado de são paulo, brazil brazil sir feuerfestprodukte gmbh siegener strasse 152, kreuztal, d-57223, germany germany soled sas parc d’activités, belle fontaine, 57780 rosselange, france france tamworth uk limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england thomas marshall (loxley) limited beaver house, 23- 38 hythe bridge street, oxford, ox1 2ep , england england unicorn industries limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england veservice ltda av brasil, 49550, distrito industrial de palmares, campo grande, rio de janeiro, 23065-480, brazil brazil vesuvius (thailand) co., ltd 170/69, 22nd floor ocean t ower 1, ratchadapisek road, klongtoey, bangkok, 101 10, thailand thailand vesuvius (v .e.a.r.) ul pradnicka, nr 4, krakow, 30-002, poland vesuvius uk limited 1 midland way, central park, barlborough links, derbyshire, s43 4xa, united kingdom england vesuvius ukraine llc 27 , udarnykiv street, city of dnipropetrovsk, ukraine ukraine vesuvius usa corporation ct corporation, 208 south lasalle street, chicago, cook county, il 60604, united states us (illinois) vesuvius va limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england vesuvius zyalons holdings limited brown street, newmilns, ayrshire, ka 16 9ag, scotland scotland vesuvius zyarock ceramics (suzhou) co., ltd 58, kuachun road, kua t ang, china-singapore suzou ind park, suzhou, jiangsu province, 215122, china china vesuvius-premier refractories (holdings) limited 1 midland way, central park, barlborough links, derbyshire, s43 4xa, england england vsv advanced ceramics (anshan) co., ltd xiaotaizi village, ningyuan t own, qianshan district, anshan, liaoning province, china china wilkes-lucas limited 165 fleet street, london, ec4a 2ae, england england yingkou bayuquan refractories co., ltd qing long shan street, bayuquan district, liaoning province, yingkou china 35.2 investment in joint ventures and associates a joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. 20d, são paulo, centro, 01009-000, brazil brazil 50 int ahsa sa street duque de caxias 563, house 04, room 01, barueri, são paulo, centro, 06401-010, brazil brazil 25 newshelf 480 (proprietary) limited 44 main street, johannesburg, 2001, south africa south africa 45 notes to the group financial statements continued 180 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 35. investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (continued) 35.2 investment in joint ventures and associates (continued) associates during 2017 , the group acquired a 14.9% interest in sapotech oy, a finnish technology company, for total consideration of £0.4m. 36.3 t ransactions with other related parties there are no controlling shareholders of the group as deﬁ ned by ifrs. the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these ﬁ nancial statements. a proposed ﬁ nal dividend for the year ended 31 december 2017 of £33.8m (2016: £30.8m), equivalent to 12.5 pence per ordinary share (2016: 1 1.40 pence), is subject to approval by shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these ﬁ nancial statements. for grants with market-based conditions attaching to them, fair value is measured using a form of stochastic option pricing model. t ransactions with other related parties there are no controlling shareholders of the company as deﬁ ned by ifrs. 188 vesuvius plc annual report and accounts 201 7 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 steel division revenue £m 1, 148.7 942.0 897 .6 981.4 1,01 7 .5 t rading proﬁ t£m 100.4 79.2 79.5 96.4 88.7 return on sales % 8.7 8.4 8.9 9.8 8.7 employees: year -end no. 3,080 3,058 3, 129 3,443 3,330 five- y ear summary: divisional results from continuing operations 189 financial statements shareholder information enquiries the share register is managed by equiniti, who can be contacted regarding shareholding queries. shareview and electronic communication equiniti’s website www.shareview.co.uk enables shareholders to access details of their shareholdings online. shareholders can register to receive shareholder communications electronically, including the company’s annual report and accounts, rather than in paper form, using shareview. once registered, shareholders will receive an email notifying them each time a shareholder communication has been published on the vesuvius website. share dealing service the company’s shares can be traded through most banks, building societies or stockbrokers. further information can be obtained from sharegift’s website at www.sharegift.org; telephone +44 (0)20 7930 3737 or by emailing help@sharegift.org. 13% 1.61% 8.26% 90.00% share fraud – spot the warning signs investment scams are designed to look like genuine investments. www.friendstudio.com print: pureprint group this report has been printed on claro bulk which is fsc ® certiﬁ ed and made from 100% elemental chlorine free (ecf) pulp. 5s five steps to improve housekeeping and therefore workplace safety and efﬁ ciency: separate, sort, shine, standardise and sustain 8d eight disciplines: an eight-step methodology to resolve customer, supplier and internal quality issues agm annual general meeting cis commonwealth of independent states (russian commonwealth) co 2 carbon dioxide co 2 e carbon dioxide equivalent company vesuvius plc dsbp deferred share bonus plan dtr the disclosure and t ransparency rules of the uk financial conduct authority ebitda t rading proﬁ t before depreciation and amortisation of non-acquired intangible charges emea europe, middle east and africa eps earnings per share eu european union frc financial reporting council frs financial reporting standards ftse 250 equity index whose constituents are the 101st to 350th largest companies listed on the london stock exchange in terms of their market capitalisation fx foreign exchange ghg greenhouse gas group vesuvius plc and its subsidiary companies ias international accounting standard ifrs international financial reporting standards kpi key performance indicator lti lost time injury ltifr lost time injury frequency rate, a kpi which calculates the number of l tis per million hours worked median the middle number in a sorted list of numbers naft a the area to which the north american free t rade agreement applies oems original equipment manufacturers ordinary share an ordinary share of 10 pence in the capital of the company r&d research and development tsr t otal shareholder return turbos the vesuvius safety training programme uk gaap uk generally accepted accounting principles vsp vesuvius share plan glossary v esuvius plc 165 fleet street london ec4a 2ae t +44 (0)20 7822 0000 www .