based in boston, allied minds supports its businesses with capital, management, expertise and shared services. this was completed after careful review of the capital requirements, competitive position and market opportunities facing each company. the actions undertaken across our investment, syndication and operating activities have been consistent with these priorities. we completed subsidiary funding rounds in 2017 for hawkeye 360 , bridgesat, federated wireless and signature medical that each included external strategic investors. simon davidson joined the team in june as executive vice president, technology investments, bringing extensive experience working with federal laboratories and government customers. omar amirana, md, senior vice president, life sciences investments, has focused on investment theses revolving around proprietary minimally-invasive solutions for procedures with a clear reimbursement path that reduce morbidity, mortality and costs. we are largely focused in areas where adoption can be dramatic such as interventional cardiology, electrophysiology, neuroradiology, pulmonology, and gastroenterology. o on 14 september 2017, federated wireless announced the closing of a $42.0 million series b preferred funding. the round was led by new investors who are key members of the shared spectrum ecosystem: charter communications (nasdaq: chtr); american tower (nyse: amt); and arris international plc (nasdaq: arrs), and by gic, singapore’s sovereign wealth fund. o on 5 october 2017, spin transfer technologies, inc. announced that it had secured $22.8 million of funding via a convertible bridge facility. • in addition to these fundraisings, $16.6 million was invested by the group into new and other existing subsidiary businesses. corporate highlights • on 13 march 2017, the company appointed jill smith, formerly a non-executive director, as interim ceo. • on 29 june 2017, allied minds announced the appointment of simon davidson as executive vice president, technology investments. • on 19 september 2017, allied minds announced the appointment of harry rein as an independent non- executive director. • on 12 july 2017, bridgesat announced the appointment of barry matsumori, formerly a senior executive at qualcomm, spacex and virgin galactic, as ceo. the phase i/ii study assessed the safety and preliminary efficacy of sf0166 in 40 evaluable patients with dme who were randomized to one of two dose strengths (2.5% and 5.0% solutions) self-administered by patients as an eye drop twice-a-day for 28 days, with a 28 day follow-up period. the double masked phase i/ii study assessed the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of sf0166 in 42 evaluable subjects with neovascular (wet) amd who were randomised 1:1 to self-administer an eye drop containing either a 2.5% or a 5% solution of sf0166 twice-a-day for 28 days. subsidiary 2018 key operational management objectives bridgesat • successfully demonstrate end-to-end service: network operations centre (noc), at least one ground station, and customer pathfinder(s) • sign 2+ customer agreements; build strong commercial revenue backlog federated wireless • fcc certification • support multiple customer launches and realise commercial revenue • build out national availability of environmental sensing capability (esc) network to meet customer requirements hawkeye 360 • successfully launch pathfinder satellite cluster • launch marine domain awareness (mda) products and realise commercial revenue precision biopsy • gain ce mark • complete cohort b trial scifluor • initiate at least one phase ii trial for sf0166 • complete in-life investigational new drug (ind) enabling study for one new asset spin transfer technologies • successfully demonstrate the advantages of the spin polarizer and endurance engine • sign 2+ customer/partner agreements 9 annual report and accounts 2017 highlights (continued) strategic report board and management highlights following jill smith’s appointment as president and ceo, vacating her previous non-executive directorship, the board appointed harry rein as a non-executive director in august 2017. harry brings extensive experience from the venture capital sector, most recently serving as general partner for 10 years at foundation medical partners (foundation), an early stage venture capital firm focused on the healthcare sector. however, despite having established technology transfer processes designed to commercialise this intellectual property, only a relatively small number of patents per year are licensed, and only a small fraction progress to the next stage of development. allied minds invests in technologies that have the potential to disrupt large markets and builds companies with a strong focus on those criteria that together best position them for successful commercialisation and ultimately an exit at a superior valuation. the company has defined six key success factors that, if present, can create the conditions for a superior exit valuation: • disruptive innovation solving an important problem (ideally with first mover advantage) • favourable market dynamics (large market and/or high growth rate) • sustainable competitive advantage (unique or superior solutions, with sustainable barriers to entry, potentially including ip) • route to widespread adoption (minimum barriers to adoption; known/available distribution channels) • capable management with aligned interest (right skill mix and accountability for delivery) • potential for competitive tension (operate to maximise exit optionality and nurture potential buyers) 11 annual report and accounts 2017 company overview (continued) strategic report (continued) source since inception, allied minds has sought to deliver the commercial potential of ip developed in universities, federal laboratories, and medical institutions, by working with technology transfer offices (ttos). it is a fact of life in early stage company creation and development that not all ideas or technologies will successfully transition to commercialisation. portfolio composition allied minds has identified six subsidiaries as defined earlier that we believe are well-positioned for commercialisation and have the potential to realise superior exit valuations. this is particularly true for market opportunities in regulated industries, or where target markets include government customers. in addition to these fundraisings, $16.6 million was invested by the group into other existing subsidiary businesses. below we provide an overview of our 12 current operating subsidiary businesses, including year formed, and allied minds’ ownership interest. initially focused on prostate cancer, the technology is potentially applicable to other cancers scifluor life sciences, inc. 2010 69.89% drug development company focused on creating a portfolio of best- in- class compounds in the fields of ophthalmology, neuroscience and fibrosis. these valuations assume there will be available funds for the subsidiaries to reach next stages of their development towards commercial success or an exit event. the cost and speed characteristics of rf, together with increasingly scarce spectrum, make it difficult to support this increase in data downlink demand. bridgesat enjoys first mover advantages and is thought to be the only commercial entity currently building out a network of optical communications ground stations. bridgesat’s first target market is the fast-growing leo data downlink segment, currently estimated to be worth $1.5 billion annually. 2017 management objectives • complete series a fund-raise • acquire launch customers • demonstrate operation of first bridgesat ground station 20 annual report and accounts 2017 portfolio review and developments (continued) (continued) progress in 2017 • appointed barry matsumori as ceo • completed a $6.0 million series a fund-raise completed in may 2017, including participation by space angels, a venture capital firm focused on emerging space • signed ground station partnership with swedish space corporation (ssc) • first ground station designed and contracted with completion due in 2018 • contracted with launch customers (3 pathfinder customers signed and one space terminal delivered) • signed an agreement with tesat to develop interoperability with bridgesat’s ground station network • received a contract award in japan to deliver a geo space terminal for the ets-ix geo satellite programme 2018 key operational management objectives • successfully demonstrate end-to-end service: noc, at least one ground station, and customer pathfinder(s) • sign 2+ customer agreements; build strong commercial revenue backlog federated wireless , i nc . spectrum is allocated according to the three tier priorities determined by fcc rules and regulations. federated wireless is installing and will operate over one hundred esc sensors along substantial stretches of the us coastlines. • in q4 began field trials with customers covering all five of the spectrum sharing verticals, including charter communications; arris international; american tower as well as verizon and telrad (a wireless broadband provider or wisp) • after the period end, signed a multi-year commercial agreement with telrad in january to deliver lte fixed wireless services 2018 key operational management objectives • fcc certification • support multiple customer launches and realise commercial revenue • build out national availability of esc network to meet customer requirements ha wk e ye 360 , i nc . using proprietary algorithms, signals data will be used individually or in combination with multiple other data sources to deliver contextual, timely analysis and predictions related to sources of rf signals, such as ships and fishing vessels. for example maritime vessels engaged in illegal fishing may seek to evade detection by switching off their ais (automatic identification system) and going “dark”. the company estimates that at full capacity it will operate with up to 10 commercial clusters. business model and target markets the first market targeted by hawkeye 360 is maritime domain awareness (mda). precision biopsy was formed in 2008 based on technology originally sourced from the university of colorado. poor diagnosis rates mean that cancer is missed nearly half of the time and patients are subjected to repeat treatments. precision biopsy’ performance against 2017 management objectives • complete cohort a study • initiate cohort b trial • progress claricore™ ce mark and fda approval progress in 2017 • completed cohort a study • improved algorithm accuracy – supports biopsy, 3d mapping and focal therapy • confirmed de novo 510k approval path with fda (on average a markedly cheaper route to fda approval for a medical device versus the pma alternative) • cohort b ide submission completed 25 annual report and accounts 2017 portfolio review and developments (continued) strategic report • good progress against claricore™ ce mark approval • 3d mapping prototype developed, ready for first in man studies 2018 key operational management objectives • gain ce mark • complete cohort b trial sci fluor l ife sciences , i nc . in the second half of 2017 scifluor concluded separate phase i/ii clinical trials for dme and wet-amd. in 2016 worldwide combined revenue for lucentis and eylea, the two leading injectable drugs treating these diseases, exceeded $8 billion. ageing populations and the projected increased prevalence of diabetes are expected to drive future growth. spin transfer has more than 150 patents issued or pending in relation to these three technologies. target markets and business model through a phased roll-out of capabilities with partners, spin transfer expects first to target sram markets estimated at $500 million, and later dram with a total addressable market estimated to be worth $20 billion. the spin polarizer adds an infinitesimal processing cost (fractions of a per cent) while greatly reducing silicon area. 2017 management objectives (as of march 2017) • advance technology to demonstrate differentiators • secure strategic development/investing partner • complete series b fund-raise note: after tom sparkman was hired as ceo, new objectives were set, including: • partner with tokyo electron limited (tel) • create 1g of data to demonstrate advanced pmtj capability • meet with 25+ potential partners • increase patent portfolio progress in 2017 • in july recruited tom sparkman as ceo, with previous executive roles at maxim, spansion • new strategy in place, transformed operational and commercial focus • in september signed a collaborative engineering program with tel providing expedited access to mram deposition tools and engineering resource 28 annual report and accounts 2017 portfolio review and developments (continued) • 1g data measured • held over 50 partner meetings • 87 new patents filed • $22.8 million bridge finance facility underwritten by allied minds in october 2017. spin transfer secured $10.3 million of funding via a convertible bridge facility with existing shareholders of the group in january 2018, which satisfied allied minds’ commitment to fulfill the remaining balance of the 2017 bridge facility with spin transfer. 2018 key operational management objectives • successfully demonstrate the advantages of the spin polarizer and endurance engine • sign 2+ customer/partner agreements spin transfer is engaged in active dialogue regarding its series b fundraising activities with multiple high quality strategic investors and commercial partners. the company’s mission is to create novel drug candidates against serious diseases with large market potential. these include fibrosis, cardiovascular, immune-science, immuno-oncology and oncology, aligning to bms’s strategic areas of focus. selected lead molecules are being evaluated in another disease model of duchenne muscular dystrophy (dmd). through this joint discovery process between allied minds and ge ventures’ technology licensing group, multiple promising candidates for eventual spin-out have been reviewed. while we have not yet identified a candidate that meets each of our investment criteria and objectives, we continue to seek an opportunity for allied minds to form new entities based on the cutting-edge technologies developed by one of the world’s leaders in technology innovation. during 2017 luxcath began developing a proprietary catheter into which its optical tissue interrogation technology will be integrated. luxcath has recruited a highly qualified scientific advisory board comprising leading electrophysiologists at mount sinai health system (new york), massachusetts general hospital, beaumont health (michigan), texas cardiac arrhythmia institute at st. david’s medical center and l’institut de rythmologie et modelisation cardiaque (bordeaux, france). in addition to these fundraisings, $16.6 million was invested by the group into new and other existing subsidiary businesses. this increase is mainly attributable to the higher nre revenue at federated wireless and hawkeye 360 . these savings were offset by an increase in spending at certain companies nearing commercialisation within the group. the group’s strategy is to maintain healthy, highly liquid cash balances that are readily available for investment. it is possible that one or more of these identified risks could impact the group in a similar timeframe which may compound their effects. • dedicated leadership with deep industry or sector knowledge, and relevant technical and/or leadership experience, is recruited as appropriate, and the group ensures that each subsidiary has independent directors and/or other advisors, as appropriate for the relevant stage of development. the group may not be able to sell its ownership interests in subsidiary businesses during any specific time frame or otherwise on desirable terms, if at all. 3. if a significant number of the group’s relationships with us universities and federal government institutions were to break down or be terminated or expire, then the group would lose any rights that it has to act as a private sector partner in the commercialisation of intellectual property being generated by such universities, other research intensive institutions or us federal research institutions. this could potentially have an adverse effect on the group’s long term prospects and performance. 38 annual report and accounts 2017 risk management (continued) mitigation: • the group continues to strengthen its partner network. at the same time we seek to develop deep relationships with select research institutions and corporate partners, as well as build out a network of industry-specific relationships, in order to strengthen the quality and quantity of new deal opportunities. he subsequently served as chairman and chief executive officer of gemin x, a venture capital backed oncology company that was sold to cephalon. bush appointed him as deputy executive director for the white house conference on science and economic research related to global climate change. in all cases, the directors must ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive time commitment or cause a conflict of interest. there is also an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the company’s expense. the indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently or with willful misconduct. the company has also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action against its directors and officers. the schedule of board and committee meetings each year is, so far as is possible, determined before the commencement of that year and all directors or, if appropriate, all committee members are expected to attend each meeting. this information includes quarterly management accounts containing analysis of performance against budget and other forecasts. (2) scope 2 being electricity (from location-based calculations), heat, steam and cooling purchased for the group’s own use. (3) scope 2 being electricity (from market-based calculations), heat, steam and cooling purchased for the group’s own use. allied minds has continued to employ regular all-staff update meetings as the main source of employee communication. during 2017, we received feedback from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services with respect to our remuneration programme. 76 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) element of remuneration how it supports the company’s short and long-term strategic objectives operation opportunity performance metrics benefits the committee’s intention is to provide a benefits package in line with us employment market practice. an executive director’s cash incentive bonus award is considered by the committee upon completion of each financial year. 78 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) element of remuneration how it supports the company’s short and long-term strategic objectives operation opportunity performance metrics pension it is the committee’s intention to provide pension benefits in line with us employment market practice. 80 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) element of remuneration how it supports the company’s short and long-term strategic objectives operation opportunity performance metrics allied minds phantom plan the committee’s intention is to reward participants for a successful subsidiary company liquidity event. details of any such payments will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise. 84 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) at 10 march 2017, jill smith’s non-executive director letter of appointment previously entered into in january 2016 was terminated, and she entered into a new executive director letter of appointment. the committee may in its discretion determine that there are exceptional circumstances justifying vesting to a greater or lesser extent. an executive director’s cash incentive bonus award is considered by the remuneration committee upon completion of each financial year. the board used its discretion to treat mr. silva’s resignation as a termination without cause (good leaver). the committee has not set a timeframe during which executive officers are required to accumulate their share ownership level. the maximum opportunity for each executive director in 2018 will remain constant and may be up to 225% of base salary. the maximum opportunity for each executive director in 2018 shall be up to 300% of base salary. during the period that ms. smith served as “interim” chief executive officer, she was paid a base salary of $100,000 per month, and she was not eligible for any cash incentive bonus awards, ltip awards, or any other incentive or equity schemes. ms. smith has a service contract that commenced on 26 may 2017 and shall continue until terminated by either of allied minds or the executive director. if the executive director’s employment is terminated by allied minds for “cause”, she shall only be entitled to amounts that are accrued or owing but not yet paid and reimbursement of any properly incurred business expenses but excluding any bonus payments or other compensation provided pursuant to allied minds’ incentive compensation plan (such amounts, the “standard benefit”). outside appointments for executive directors any proposed external directorships are considered and approved by the board to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest but, subject to this, executive directors may accept outside non-executive appointments. in addition, the committee received assistance from jill smith, chief executive officer and joe pignato, chief financial officer, each of who attend certain meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration were being discussed. the ceo, cfo, general counsel and external auditors also participate in committee meetings by invitation. no changes were suggested or required to be made in our 31 december 2017 accounts as result of this review. this thematic review provides no assurance that our report and accounts are correct in all material respects and the financial reporting council’s role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements. our results – we found the disclosure of group subsidiary ownership adjusted value to be acceptable. our results – we found the accounting treatment and valuation of preference shares to be acceptable. our results – we found the group’s judgement that there is no indicator of impairment to be appropriate. based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information. registered number: 8998697 the financial statements on pages 117 to 169 were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 22 march 2018 and signed on its behalf by: jill smith chief executive officer 119 financial statements consolidated statement of changes in equity head_0 1st line release annual report and accounts 2017 consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 december 2017 note share capital share premium $’ 000 merger reserve $’ 000 translation reserve $’ 000 accumulated deficit $’ 000 total parent equity $’ 000 non- controlling interests $’ 000 total equity $’ 000 shares amount $’ 000 balance at 31 december 2015 215,637,363 3,429 155,867 185,544 (16) (192,819) 152,005 (10,631) 141,374 total comprehensive loss for the year loss from continuing operations — — — — — (96,333) (96,333) (32,609) (128,942) foreign currency translation — — — — 208 — 208 — 208 total comprehensive loss for the year 208 (96,333) (96,125) (32,609) (128,734) issuance of ordinary shares 16 17,457,015 219 — 77,891 — — 78,110 — 78,110 new funds into non-controlling interest 16 — — — — — — — 13,773 13,773 gain/(loss) arising from change in non-controlling interest 17 — — — — — (6,229) (6,229) 6,229 — exercise of stock options 6 650,000 9 1,200 — — — 1,209 — 1,209 equity-settled share based payments 6 — — — — — 5,944 5,944 2,441 8,385 balance at 31 december 2016 233,744,378 3,657 157,067 263,435 192 (289,437) 134,914 (20,797) 114,117 total comprehensive loss for the year loss from continuing operations — — — — — (75,675) (75,675) (35,337) (111,012) foreign currency translation — — — — (103) — (103) — (103) total comprehensive loss for the year (103) (75,675) ( 75,778) (35,377) (111,115) issuance of ordinary shares 16 3,402,567 43 — (68) — — (25) — (25) gain/(loss) arising from change in non-controlling interest 17 — — — — — (50) (50) 50 — dissolution of subsidiaries 17 4,653 4,653 (4,653) — exercise of stock options 6 1,055,596 14 1,539 — — — 1,553 — 1,553 equity-settled share based payments 6 — — — — — 6,066 6,066 1,496 7,562 balance at 31 december 2017 238,202,541 3,714 158,606 263,367 89 (354,443) 71,333 (59,241) 12,092 see accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. the group’s investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses. foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive loss. other investments comprise fixed income debt securities, including government agency and corporate bonds, are stated at amortised cost less impairment. it is the group policy to hold these investments until a maximum maturity of three years. the group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire. such financial liabilities are recognised at fair value through profit and loss plus any directly attributable transaction costs. subsequent to initial recognition these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. the group’s financial liabilities include subsidiary preferred shares some of which incorporate embedded derivatives. intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. objective evidence that financial assets are impaired includes: • default or delinquency by a debtor; • restructuring of an amount due to the group on terms that the group would not consider otherwise; • indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy; • adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers or issuers; • the disappearance of an active market for a security; or • observable data indicating that there is measurable decrease in expected cash flows from a group of financial assets. an operating segment is a component of allied minds that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the allied minds’ other components. for trade receivables, a simplified approach may be applied whereby the lifetime ecl are always recognised. the group has completed an initial assessment of the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements and determined that this standard will not have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. as of 1 january 2018, the group’s implementation plan to adopt this new guidance is substantially complete. as at 31 december 2017, the group’s future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases amounted to $8.0 million, on an undiscounted basis (see note 21). instead, a later stage companies reportable segment is established in the current year, as defined above. those currently include our top six subsidiaries, namely bridgesat, federated wireless, hawkeye 360 , precision biopsy, scifluor life sciences, and spin transfer technologies. all stock options granted to employees under this plan are equity settled, for a ten-year term. (3) these subsidiaries do not represent separate subsidiary businesses referred to earlier within the annual report. generally, valuations are not increased unless warranted by or in anticipation of a financing transaction. each ordinary share is entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by the company’s board of directors. should this next lead optimisation phase prove successful, bristol-myers squibb has the right to acquire allied minds’ interest in abls ii at a pre-determined multiple of invested capital. the preferred shares are entitled to a vote with holders of common stock on an as converted basis. • costs and capital expenditures are estimated for each phase of development based on the companies’ information or according to industry standards. the pwerm estimates the value of equity securities based on an analysis of various discrete future outcomes, such as an ipo, merger or sale, dissolution, or continued operation as a private enterprise until a later exit date. group policy is to maintain its funds in highly liquid deposit accounts with reputable financial institutions. (25) taxation amounts recognised in profit or loss no current income tax expense was recorded for the years ended 31 december 2017 and 2016 due to accumulated losses. value in use is measured based on future discounted cash flows (“dcf”) attributable to the asset.