our franchisees are fully insured members of professional bodies, supported by specialist software, who know their local rental market and manage all properties locally. i’m delighted to report that this was matched by an almost identical increase in our managed portfolio through organic growth. its hq staff are based in cleckheaton, bradford and culturally, it is very different from our traditional high street brands. management are alive to the possibility that there will be both opportunities for our franchisees to act as consolidators at their local level, buying up competitor’s letting portfolios, but there will also be consolidation opportunities within the group, with strong and capable franchisees buying out their weaker neighbours. stored equity £2.5tn market drivers house sales 1.2m 11 the property franchise group plc annual report and accounts 2017 governance financial statements strategic report * pwc uk economic outlook (july 2015) ** knight frank research (jul 17) * moore stephens research (jul 17) * twenty ci (jan 18) ** jefferies (feb 18) key market opportunities growing private rented sector the private rented sector has grown from a low of 9% to almost 20% of uk stock, overtaking the social housing sector, with 5.4 million privately rented homes in 2014 expected to reach 7.2 million by 2025*. operational efficiency we have been developing relationships with key suppliers in our sector being one of the major purchasers. • ebitda margin percentage before exceptional items and share-based payment charges was 44% (2016: 47%) with ewemove’s negative contribution of £0.1m causing the reduction. indeed, one of our brands has been selling houses for 168 years, evolving as the market and practices have evolved. ewemove showed us that you can generate leads through pay per click (“ppc”) relatively cheaply and, of course, we had access to their partner. market pressures imply that there may be more independent operators of lettings and sales businesses looking to exit our sector. so we decided to increase our efforts in this area at the start of 2017 including incentivising franchisees with cash back and financial support for office rebranding. result two years later chris and merolyn had moved their franchise up to 8th by income in the martin & co network. after a few years he gained promotion to advertising manager for the group’s free press titles distributed throughout somerset, dorset, devon and wiltshire. the trade names cj hole, parkers and ellis & co are assessed as having indefinite lives due to their long trading histories. the after tax cash flows determined through this process were then discounted at 13.5% to determine a value for each brand name. in common with all other businesses, the group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. the board monitors a broad range of financial metrics including growth in msf, operating margin, ebitda, return on capital employed and balance sheet gearing. 62 the property franchise group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial calendar announcement of preliminary results – 10 april 2018 annual general meeting – 16 may 2018 half-year results – 30 september 2018 interim dividend – october 2018 registered office address the property franchise group plc 2 st stephen’s court st stephen’s road bournemouth bh2 6la company no.