• gms is well-placed to capitalise on a recovering market with its modern fleet, industry-leading operational expertise and technological capability. they have a large deck space, crane capacity and accommodation facilities that can be adapted to the requirements of our clients. 9 gulf marine services plc annual report 2017 financial statements governance strategic report as our new build programme is now complete, we have scaled down the number of construction personnel at gms substantially, whilst still retaining a small complement of staff with the necessary key technical expertise to support ongoing vessel modification and maintenance projects. as wind farm projects are now being located further offshore, frequent personnel transfers to and from the shore have become impractical. outlook we would expect the improving oil price environment to have a positive influence on clients’ activity levels in our markets. i am confident that with our modern fleet, industry-leading operational expertise and technological capability we are well-placed to capitalise on a recovering market. generate long-term shareholder value disciplined cost and balance sheet management we seek to maintain a prudent financial policy with appropriate levels of liquidity. a gms sesv provides benefits to our clients independent self-propelled four-legged design for safe and efficient operations, with rapid move capability. sesvs do not require additional tug support or anchor handling vessels and can therefore move more efficiently around a client’s field of assets than conventional jackups without self-propulsion. with no need for additional support vessels resulting in quicker vessel moves between locations, clients can reduce their project costs and increase productivity. the group incurred zero trir and ltir incidents in 2017 which demonstrates our commitment to delivering industry leading standards of safety. the group is capable of modifying assets to satisfy client requirements and can do so in its own yard where appropriate. the group’s robust operating standards result in minimal downtime which helps ensure that clients are not given cause to cancel contracts through non-performance. this has enabled the group to retain key technical skills and expertise in our fleet of high quality vessels. failure to deliver the expected operational performance could result in reputational damage, litigation, reduced profit margins or loss of clients. the group may not be able to deploy stacked vessels timely for new contracts which could limit operational readiness. further information on the gms fleet can be found in the gms at a glance section on page 4. the table below provides a summary of our key performance metrics: small class (6 units*) 2017 2016 average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (us$’000s) 25 36 utilisation 53% 65% average daily vessel operating costs (us$’000) 9 9 mid-size class (3 units) 2017 2016 average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (us$’000s) 41 51 utilisation 71% 61% average daily vessel operating costs (us$’000) 13 13 large class (4 units) 2017 2016 average daily charter rate excluding hotel services (us$’000s) 52 64 utilisation 70% 91% average daily vessel operating costs (us$’000) 14 14 * this excludes the vessel naashi after it was reclassified from small class vessels to other vessels following its impairment in 2017. hsseq health, safety and the environment continue to be our top priority and we delivered an excellent safety performance in the year, with a total recordable injury rate** of zero (0.20 in 2016) and zero lost time injuries** (one lost time injury in 2016). a significant achievement in 2017 was the team’s completion and installation of our innovative cantilever system for gms evolution. the cantilever system allows our vessel to supplant higher cost non-propelled drilling rigs on well workover projects by offering greater operational efficiencies, quicker servicing times and lower costs. this in-house training resource ensures we can mobilise our vessels in a timely manner as new contracts are awarded. cost of sales reduced less than the decrease in revenue, as vessels that were ‘warm stacked’ between contracts at our own yard still incur certain operating costs to be ready for rapid redeployment. any further capital expenditure would relate to contract specific requirements that may be required as new work is secured. gms operates responsibly in accordance with the formal legal and regulatory disclosure requirements expected of a uk listed company. we support the personal and professional development of all our employees, so they can reach their full potential within gms. attended attended all or part of meeting as an invitee apologies board audit & risk remuneration nomination simon heale duncan anderson simon batey dr karim el solh* w. richard anderson * christopher foll, a chartered accountant and chief financial officer of gulf capital, has been appointed as an alternate director for dr. karim el solh; further details can be found in the directors’ report on page 59. as dr. karim el solh was unable to attend the july and october board meetings, he was represented by the alternate director christopher foll. chairman chief executive officer • providing strategic insight from his wide-ranging business experience and contacts built up over many years. the board believes that these evaluations can provide a valuable opportunity to highlight recognised strengths and identify any areas for development. additional meetings are held in the intervening periods to keep existing and prospective investors updated on our latest performance. in 2017, this included an assessment of whether the annual report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable. this follows group-wide salary reductions that were implemented in 2016. we will be operating the same bonus framework for 2018. this means the maximum opportunity will therefore remain at 100% of base salary, with performance measured against financial targets (50%) and a balanced scorecard of strategic, financial and operational objectives (50%). the company is required to prepare, and seek shareholder approval for an updated directors’ remuneration policy at least once every three years. targets are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the group. 60 gulf marine services plc annual report 2017 directors’ report continued employees and policies the group operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin or disability or on any other basis. the amendments clarify how an entity should evaluate whether there will be sufficient future taxable profits against which it can utilise a deductible temporary difference. capital work-in-progress properties and vessels under the course of construction, are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs under capitalised in accordance with the group’s accounting policy. when a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. • restricted reserve includes reserves maintained by certain subsidiaries in compliance with the relevant uae companies law applicable (note 17). the group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties which have been determined based on credit checks and other financial analysis, such that significant revenue is generated by dealing with high profile well known customers, for whom the credit risk is assessed to be suitably low. electronic communication facilities for the receipt of any document or information on proxies are open to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged. however, this additional information presented is not uniformly defined by all companies including those in the group’s industry.