T o turn this into a whole new class of medicines:  that requires something special. Live Biotherapeutics – disruptive new medicines Live Biotherapeutics are a regulated, emerging  and disruptive new class of medicines, which  have the potential to transform the way  in which we treat many diseases. Our Live Biotherapeutics are strains  of gut commensal bacteria which  have been originally isolated from  healthy humans. Understanding which of these  genes – and their products – interact with  the human body in a beneficial way is key  to identifying new Live Biotherapeutics. 4D pharma at a Glance Leaders in an  emerging field We are well positioned to turn world-class microbiome science into safer new  therapies for patients. 4D has grown from pioneering microbiome research to the  only integrated, world-leading Live Biotherapeutics company. Watch our new video: 4dpharmaplc.com Highly attractive safety profile Toxicity and unwanted side effects are a  constant challenge in drug development. Our Live Biotherapeutics are originally  isolated from healthy human donors and  consequently have excellent safety profiles. 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT An integrated biopharma company MicroRx – our proprietary discovery platform Our discovery platform, MicroRx, allows us to rapidly  identify strains of gut bacteria which may have a  therapeutic effect in specific diseases. Using MicroRx,  we interrogate our proprietary library of more than 6,000  bacterial strains for pathway-specific effects on the  host immune system. Unlike traditional drug discovery, which involves multiple  rounds of hit and lead optimisation to identify a clinical  candidate – a process which can take a number of  years – we can progress from concept to clinic-ready  product in as little as 24 months, helping us get our  therapies to patients who need them more rapidly. Functional screen Microbiology  Immunology  Gut physiology Mechanism of action Microbiology  Immunology  Gut physiology Development RCB  Scale-up  Lyophilisation  Stability  Safety  Potency Source Gut microbiota from healthy humans Isolation Individual bacterial strains on selective media Identification of bacteria using genome sequencing Mechanisms Pre-clinical models Efficacy Pre-clinical models Gastro-intestinal Blautix Irritable Bowel Syndrome Rosburix Ulcerative colitis Thetanix Crohn’s Disease CNS Neurodegeneration Autism Others Respiratory MRx0004 Asthma MRx0001 Allergic asthma  Immuno-oncology MRx518 Solid tumours Autoimmune MRx0006 Rheumatoid arthritis MRx0002 Multiple sclerosis Others Discovery Pre-clinical Development Phase I Phase II Phase III Development pipeline 03 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4dpharmaplc.com S Chairman’s Statement With its upcoming programme of  trials, 4D is well placed to deliver  meaningful clinical data to support  the use of Live Biotherapeutics  across multiple indications increasing intellectual property estate helps  secure our leading position in the field. I believe that through  our upcoming programme of clinical trials,  we are well positioned to achieve this. David Norwood Non-Executive Chairman 20 April 2018 Strategic objectives Since the Group’ s initial public offering, 4D  has grown rapidly to become a world leader  in the development of Live Biotherapeutics,  an “end-to-end” microbiome company, from  research to development and manufacture. Consequently, we are looking to address  the IBS subtypes (IBS-C (constipation) and  IBS-D (diarrhoea)) in our upcoming phase II  trial. The early  stage of intervention in this trial further  demonstrates the lower risk our Live  Biotherapeutics represent in terms of safety,  but also provides potential insights into how  MRx0518 may influence treatment regimes  post-surgery. 4D targets its  programmes to be ready for patient trials  within 24 months from concept. Performance 4D exploits the enhanced safety profiles of  therapeutics that originate from a healthy  human. Intellectual property rights Description In this rapidly developing field, 4D believes  it is vital to actively pursue patent protection  for the innovations made. Focus areas Having successfully established this leading  position, 4D is commencing an extended  programme of publications and conferences. We currently have 17 wholly  owned Live Biotherapeutic programmes  in the pipeline across various stages  of development. Financial resource measure We need to ensure that we have  sufficient cash in hand and on deposit  to cover the anticipated future costs  of developing the science through  our various strategic milestones. These systems can  be summarised as follows: 11 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4dpharmaplc.com S Why is it important? Even if products are approved,  they may still face subsequent regulatory difficulties  which could result in delays and therefore financial loss. Change in level of risk  Increase UK referendum to leave the European Union (“EU”) – Brexit The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 13 was approved by the Board on 20 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Duncan Peyton Chief Executive Officer 20 April 2018 13 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4dpharmaplc.com S Audit and Risk Committee A Remuneration Committee R Chairman Board of Directors We believe in the importance  of good corporate governance David Norwood Non-Executive Chairman  A   R David has had a long career building a number of science, technology  and investment companies. He was the founder  of Aquarius Equity, a specialist investor in businesses within the life  sciences sector, which provided investors with access to innovative,  high growth potential companies that delivered significant capital  growth. Duncan started his career in a bio-science start-up business,  which ultimately went on to list on the London Stock Exchange,  subsequently qualified as a corporate finance lawyer with Addleshaw  Goddard, then Addleshaw Booth & Co, and later joined 3i plc as an  investment manager. Duncan founded Aquarius in 2005, which made founding investments  into Nanoco Technologies Limited, Auralis Limited (subsequently  sold to ViroPharma), Tissue Regenix Group plc, Brabant Pharma  (subsequently sold to Zogenix) and C4X Discovery plc. Prior to joining Aquarius Equity, Alex worked for IP Group plc, where  he specialised in life sciences investments identifying, developing and  advising a number of companies in its portfolio, some of which went  on to list on AIM. Thomas has supported private equity and other  investors in over 50 potential deal transactions, on targets in Europe  and the USA, from cash constrained/chapter 11 to cash rich with  enterprise value of up to $1 billion. Thomas has also acted as  non-executive chairman at Akcros Holdings Limited, Penlan  Healthcare and Quantum Pharmaceutical. The Board has determined that Thomas  Engelen is independent in character and  judgement, and that there are no relationships  or circumstances which could materially  affect or interfere with the exercise of his  independent judgement. The Board has nevertheless determined  that (save only for his holding of ordinary  shares) there are no relationships or  circumstances which could materially  affect or interfere with the exercise of  his independent judgement. David Norwood Non-Executive Chairman 20 April 2018 15 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4dpharmaplc.com G Decision making continued The Board meets both at regular  intervals and also at short notice to  consider specific matters (for example  proposed material transactions). Any Director may challenge  Group proposals, and decisions are  taken democratically after discussion. The Board is actively considering  potential candidates for a further  independent Non-Executive Director. Communicating vision and strategy The Directors seek to visit institutional  shareholders at least twice a year. RSM UK Audit LLP was appointed as  auditor in 2014 following a comprehensive  tender process. All  such awards vest after three years and  are subject to individual performance  criteria. There is only one  class of share and all shares are fully paid. Auditor RSM UK Audit LLP has indicated its  willingness to continue in office. These matters were  addressed in the context of our audit of  the financial statements as a whole, and  in forming our opinion thereon, and we  do not provide a separate opinion on  these matters. We agreed with the Audit Committee that  we would report to them all unadjusted  differences in excess of £10,000 as well as  differences below those thresholds that,  in our view, warranted reporting on  qualitative grounds. We have nothing to report in respect of the  following matters in relation to which the  Companies Act 2006 requires us to report  to you if, in our opinion:  ° adequate accounting records have not  been kept by the parent company, or  returns adequate for our audit have not  been received from branches not visited  by us; or 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 26 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  ° the parent company financial statements  are not in agreement with the accounting  records and returns; or  ° certain disclosures of directors’  remuneration specified by law are not  made; or  ° we have not received all the information  and explanations we require for our audit. Duncan Peyton Director 20 April 2018 Group Statement of Financial Position  At 31 December 2017 Registered no. Duncan Peyton Director 20 April 2018 Company Statement of Financial Position  At 31 December 2017 Registered no. Judgements are based on the information available at each reporting  date which includes the progress with testing and certification and progress on, for example, establishment of commercial arrangements  with third parties. In addition, all internal activities related to research and development of new products are continuously monitored by  the Directors. The potential recoverable amounts of intangible fixed assets and goodwill have been determined based on  value-in-use calculations. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. (c) Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses,  whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker, being the Chief Executive Officer, to make  decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is  available. (h) Intangible assets Intellectual property and patents The carrying value of intangible fixed assets is reviewed annually for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate  the carrying value may not be recoverable. The carrying value of software is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may  not be recoverable, and is written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Internally generated intangible assets Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as incurred. Cost based on latest contractual prices includes all costs incurred in  bringing each product to its present location and condition. The Group and Company have not chosen to adopt any amendments or revised standards early. IFRS 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identifiable asset is controlled by a customer. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less accumulated  depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any measurement of the lease liability. Furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be affected as operating  lease payments under IAS 17 are presented as operating cash flows, whereas under the IFRS 16 model, the lease payments will be split  into a principal and interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively. Non-recurring costs As detailed in other payables (see note 19) on 23 August 2017 contingent consideration became due following the achievement  of 4D Pharma Cork Ltd’s initial milestone. Staff costs Year to 31 December 2017 Year to 31 December 2016 Research and Research and development Administrative Total development Administrative Total £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Wages and salaries 2,597  868  3,465  1,371  621  1,992  Social security costs 528  104  632  201  74  275  Pension contributions 51  26  77  32  14  46  Share-based compensation 159  143  302 — 131 131  3,335 1,141 4,476 1,604 840 2,444  Directors’ remuneration (including benefits  in kind) included in the aggregate  remuneration above comprised: Emoluments for qualifying services — 252 252 — 252 252  Directors’ emoluments (excluding social security costs, but including benefits in kind) disclosed above include £101,323  (31 December 2016: £101,238) paid to the highest paid Director. 2,693  At 31 December 2017 33,159  On 3 October 2017 the Company converted €6.052 million of existing loans into ordinary shares in 4D Pharma Leon, S.L.U. Investment and loans to subsidiaries continued Subsidiary undertakings Holding at 31 December Subsidiary undertaking Country of incorporation Registered office Principal activity 2017 4D Pharma Research Limited Scotland Life Sciences Innovation  Building, Cornhill Road,  Aberdeen AB25 2ZS Research and development 100% 4D Pharma Cork Limited Ireland Room 447, Food Sciences  Building, University College  Cork, Western Road, Cork  T12 YN60 Research and development 100% 4D Pharma Leon, S.L.U. Other payables continued Contingent consideration continued On 23 August 2017 635,692 ordinary shares were allotted in 4D pharma plc for an aggregate value of €2.6 million (at £3.7575 per  4D pharma plc share, being the average mid-market price of a 4D share for the five business days immediately preceding the date  of allotment) and were admitted on 31 August 2017. The average effective borrowing  rate for hire purchase and finance leases at 31 December 2017 was 3.95% over a weighted average remaining period of 39 months;  there were no such agreements during the year to 31 December 2016. Retained earnings Retained earnings includes the accumulated profits and losses arising from the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and certain  items from other comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders net of distributions to shareholders. The Group may use forward exchange contracts as an economic hedge against currency risk, where cash flow can be judged with  reasonable certainty. Biomar Microbial Technologies, an entity in which Antonio Fernandez is a director, charged rent and building service costs to the Group of  £302,487 (31 December 2016: £104,987). All related party transactions during the current and previous year were considered to be at arm’s length. 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4dpharmaplc.com F 61 Auditor RSM UK Audit LLP  3 Hardman Street  Manchester M3 3HF Nominated advisor and joint broker Zeus Capital Limited  82 King Street  Manchester M2 4WQ and 10 Old Burlington Street  London W1S 3AG Country of incorporation United Kingdom Company number 08840579 Directors DR Norwood (Non-Executive Chairman)  DJ Peyton  AJ Stevenson  T Engelen (Non-Executive) Company secretary  and registered office LS Dale  4D pharma plc  9 Bond Court   Leeds LS1 2JZ Joint broker Bryan Garnier & Co. Limited  Beaufort House  15 St. Botolph Street  London EC3A 7BB Registrar Link Asset Services  The Registry  34 Beckenham Road  Beckenham  Kent BR3 4TU Company Information 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4D pharma plc  9 Bond Court   Leeds LS1 2JZ