there is clearly a global need for new anti-infective drugs that are effective and reduce the growing danger of antimicrobial resistance (“amr”). chairman’s statement destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 02 in its infancy, the company predominantly carried out contract research for large pharmaceutical companies, including novartis. with an increasing number of hospital-based medical procedures being carried out across the world, there is a specific need for improved patient care regarding hospital infections. destiny pharma has already proven it can develop intellectual property, identify lead candidates and bring selected compounds through early testing to be ready for late stage phase 2b clinical trials. qidp status identifies xf-73 as a drug that is intended to treat serious or life-threatening infections, including those caused by antibiotic resistant pathogens. estimated hospital staphylococcus aureus assay detection threshold sq = 1 line mean sq score (log approx) placebo 3.1 2.3 day 0 day 1 day 6 2%, 2mg xf-73 1.7 3.0 0.8 0.5 source: data from latest us clinical trial dmid 11 0007. press release 5 september 2016. staphylococcus aureus load after 0, 1 and 5 days’ dosing financial statements governance strategic report destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 13 the medical need to combat surgical infections is significant patient carriage of staphylococcus aureus strains, including mrsa, is recognised as a growing problem and the testing of patients entering hospital for surgery is widespread in many countries, including the us. ceo’s operational and strategic review continued exciting earlier pipeline of anti-infective programmes several additional projects have been identified for the xf platform destiny pharma plans in the next two years to develop two additional products from its pipeline towards clinical development, and to conduct earlier stage research work in respect of biofilm action. destiny pharma will also establish a number of discovery stage research programmes through collaborations and where possible seek non-dilutive funding support. from 2007 until 2015, mr morgan was a non-executive director of oncimmune limited, a cancer diagnostics company which floated on aim in 2016. mr morgan has advised many of the world’s top pharmaceutical companies including amgen, bayer, gsk, novartis, novo nordisk, pfizer and roche as well as quintiles, the world’s largest clinical research organisation. where considered appropriate performance materiality may be reduced to a lower level, such as, for related party transactions and directors’ remuneration. errors below that threshold would also be reported to it if, in our opinion as auditor, disclosure was required on qualitative grounds.