strategically, parity believes it has established a clear point of diﬀerentiation from competitors due to the synergy between its consulting and professional services divisions. group by aligning both divisions, parity provides an attractive combination of trusted consultancy advice with access to the best delivery expertise. i would like to thank all my colleagues at parity for their continued support in delivering this positive run of results. 249360 parity group_pp01-pp13.qxp 26/04/2018 12:10 page 6 ceo statement (continued) 7 strategic report governance accounts, notes and other information 2017 performance our emerging strategy has already driven growth in the more proﬁtable consultancy services where we also beneﬁt from greater visibility of future revenues. the division previously carried forward an unrecognised deferred tax asset in respect of deductible timing diﬀerences that had not been recognised due to historic ﬁnancial performance. we have provided a sample below: o macro-economic uncertainty client project decisions can stall and recruitment activity are aﬀected by conﬁdence. john’s current roles include eservglobal, the innovative mobile ﬁnancial services plc, where he has served as both non-executive director and is currently executive chairman. prior to that, david has held senior ﬁnance positions in public companies across a number of sectors including ﬁnancial markets, recruitment, it services, motor retailing and advertising. roger joined the group after qualifying as an accountant in 1997, and previously held managerial roles within a variety of listed entity ﬁnance departments. the group aims to adopt a policy of diversity at all levels including selection, role assignment, teamwork and individual career development. an employee voice forum was introduced during 2017 in order to create more opportunities for upward communication and generation of ideas from all employees. as a normal part of its operations the group seeks to occupy oﬃces which have eﬃcient building management systems and, ideally, low energy lighting. advice on share options and co-investment plans is provided by pinsent masons, who also provide other legal services to the group. they are entitled to be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred by them in carrying out their duties as directors of the company. it is not anticipated that there will be a material impact in respect of ifrs 9, as the group has minimal ﬁnancial assets (except for trade debtors). such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. as such, the directors have recognised a deferred tax asset for all deductible temporary diﬀerences available to parity consultancy services. based on current lease expiry dates it is estimated these provisions will be settled over a period of two to three years. interest costs on borrowings from the asset-based ﬁnancing facility with pnc was charged at 2.35% above base rate throughout 2017 (2016: 2.5% until 1 september 2016 and 2.35% subsequently). the group’s net assets arising from overseas operations are exposed to currency risk resulting in gains or losses on retranslation into sterling.