our ability to build truly local foundations gives us unique insights into diverse cultures and industry practices in every territory. leslie van de walle chairman 28 february 2018 strategic report 6 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2017 chief executive’s statement strong growth delivered worldwide the group’s ability to deliver its best ever performance was, once again, testament to the success of our long-term strategy for growth. hong kong, another of the group’s well-established scale businesses, also had a record year whilst market conditions in singapore remained more challenging. resource solutions continued to grow its client base across the region, winning a number of multi-country contracts with new clients. by promoting our international mobility programme we encourage successful staff to move around the world, building new businesses and strengthening existing ones. focusing on the behaviours that make our environment special, reminding us what’s important so we can replicate them effectively at greater scale. “following my accountancy qualifications i worked in the oil and gas industry as a group accountant but was looking for faster career progression. over the next few years i became a true business partner to alain mlanao, managing director of walters people in paris. i moved first to ensure it was the right decision and my family joined me a few months later. what we’re now seeing is a growing trend towards using onshore locations or moving overseas operations back home; benefiting both resource solutions and the robert walters recruitment business. not just through formal processes like quarterly business reviews but talking to clients at industry roundtables and regular events. innovation also helps us cement client relationships and we are their ‘go-to’ source for all new recruitment innovations. arya robot revolution strategic report 20 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2017 diversification key facts operating profit increased 168% across europe awarded ‘great place to work’ in france & the netherlands balanced blend of recruitment businesses: – permanent – contract – interim built two premium but very distinct offerings alongside our permanant recruitment business to adapt to market conditions of the last ten years: robert walters interim management interim professionals are senior executives, capable of leading significant business change, including mergers/takeovers, business process engineering or crisis. it’s an e-learning platform where our candidates can benefit from free educational programmes – in finance, languages and other areas. karina sebti director, interim management – paris jose bokhorst director, walters people – netherlands commitment to clients five-star candidate service strategic report 22 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2017 building on the success of our 2013 sponsorship, our 2017 lions campaign encompassed social media, press, events and internal engagement. stuart faced a tough interview panel made up of rugby legends david flatman, richard hill our ambassador, and tom shanklin. canada strategic report 26 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2017 international expansion key facts first mover advantage high profitability per consultant a number of staff have gone on to manage in different businesses across the group celebrating ten years in thailand 10 the thai business was five years old and well-established when gerrit joined but there was definitely untapped potential. following the successful robert walters model we’ve focused on existing specialisations, getting to critical mass before launching new disciplines. robert walters’ reputation for very early entry into emerging markets attracted me to the group and through my network i met matt bennett, managing director of our greater china region. thailand strategic report 28 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2017 international expansion key facts 7 offices in australia: adelaide brisbane chatswood melbourne parramatta perth sydney celebrating 22 years in australia 22 to succeed over the long term we’ve had to be very focused, only recruiting specialist positions where we can maintain a price differential. i will definitely share the balik bayan campaign with my friends overseas.” mary joy tagle senior business intelligence analyst, olx philippines strategic report directors’ report financial statements annual report and accounts 2017 robert walters plc 31 focus on indonesia’s pulang kampung campaign client case study candidate case study glorya tay international candidate manager, jakarta we don’t wait for a company to have a vacancy – we talk to candidates about their goals and then proactively present them to businesses. this has worked exceptionally well and in some cases clients have created new roles for our international candidates. for a multinational company like nissan motor company, having local talent with international work experience is essential to our business.” sam artanto head of hr coe, pt nissan motor indonesia strategic report 32 robert walters plc annual report and accounts 2017 innovation and thought leadership are the glue that binds us to our clients. everyone has the opportunity to give back through a variety of programmes, from volunteering day, global charity day, global angels volunteering programme and other initiatives, whether that’s helping underprivileged children, preparing the long-term unemployed for interviews or providing food and supplies to those in need. similarly, in spain our team worked with fundación atresmedia running pre-employment workshops and mock interviews to help students prepare for the job market. australia’s long-term partnership with dress for success, a charity helping women achieve economic independence, continued and our consultants led two employment workshops per month. in south africa, our team supported cotlands, a not-for-profit organisation creating access to play-based, early learning opportunities for underprivileged children. in new zealand, staff volunteered their time once a month to make school lunches for underprivileged children who would otherwise go without. fit (financial industry in tokyo) supports local community organisations which serve important but not necessarily well recognised or understood causes. although our impact on the environment is minimal as an office-based organisation, we are fully carbon balanced and have been for three years. reporting boundary the group’s report is based on all entities and offices which are either owned or under operational control globally. this decision will be reviewed on an annual basis or sooner if changes are made to regulatory reporting requirements. as such, over and above our normal operating procedures, we have taken no specific steps in this regard. analysis in 2017 , productivity improved by 4%, as the group capitalised on improving market conditions and favourable exchange rates for our overseas business. the emergence of new technology platforms such as social media for recruitment purposes may also lead to increased competition. executive directors participating in the pension plan may benefit from annual group contributions worth up to 20% of base salary. psp awards are normally granted annually and vest after three years, dependent on the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period. his appointment is terminable by either party giving not less than three months’ written notice at any time. therefore, all directors who wish to stay in office will offer themselves for re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting. during the year ended 31 december 2017, 2.1m ordinary shares have been purchased and cancelled at an average price of £3.79 for £8.0m. a further 0.4m shares were purchased at an average price of £4.03 for £1.8m through the group’s employee benefit trust. the company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide specific compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the group’s share plans may cause options and awards to vest on a takeover. he also previously held a number of senior management positions with cadbury schweppes plc and united biscuits limited. prior to this, she was senior vice president human resources for europe, middle east and africa (emea) at intercontinental hotels group. this year we have concentrated on the impact of changes in pay rates for temporary workers covered by resource solutions contracts. key observations we did not identify any reportable misstatements or significant deficiencies in internal controls as a result of our audit work. we have therefore focused our risk on aged balances (> 30 days overdue) relating to sales in the permanent recruitment business. in australia, china, france, hong kong, japan and the united kingdom, we performed additional testing to confirm that these internal controls were operating effectively. key observations we did not identify any reportable misstatements or significant deficiencies in internal controls as a result of our audit work. the group has not entered into derivative transactions and no gains or losses on hedges have been incurred.