Operational investments can be sold to secondary market investors who target a lower rate of return consistent with the reduction in risk for assets that have completed construction. We committed capital to each of our three core regions – Asia Pacific, Europe and North America – in the year. We aim to invest in new greenfield infrastructure projects which, post-construction, produce long-term predictable cash flows that meet our rate of return targets. We remain shareholders in Manchester Waste TPS Co where the underlying asset, a combined heat and power station which burns refuse-derived fuel, is performing well. Within the pipeline is one preferred bidder position related to the MBTA fare collection project in Boston, US as well as nine shortlisted PPP positions with an investment opportunity of approximately £200 million and four exclusive renewable energy positions with an investment opportunity of approximately £150 million. In Australia and New Zealand, the tenor of PPP project finance debt tends to be more medium-term than long-term. Operations commenced in late 2017 and the wind farm benefits from power purchase agreements with two investment grade corporate offtakers. To optimise SPV management costs and project insurance • premiums through bulk purchasing or efficiency gains, thereby increasing investor returns. Despite this, since the projects we invest in are principally large and sophisticated infrastructure assets, delays can occur. Under the Group’s valuation methodology, a base case discount rate for an operational project is derived from secondary market information and other available data points. BY SECTOR £ million Wind and solar investments represented 30.9% of the portfolio value at 31 December 2017, with rail rolling stock accounting for a further 24.9%. Management and enhancement of the Group’s investment portfolio, with a clear focus on active management during construction, accompanied by realisations of investments which, combined with the Group’s corporate banking facilities and operational cash flows, enable it to finance new investment commitments. PPP projects are normally structured so as to provide significant contractual protection for equity investors (see also counterparty risk). Through its track record of more than 130 investment commitments, the Group has developed significant expertise in compliance with public tender regulations. Where possible, specific clauses relating to potential currency change within a particular jurisdiction are incorporated in project documentation. It operates a policy of ensuring that sufficient financial resources are maintained to satisfy committed and likely future investment requirements. The Group works closely with a wide range of project finance providers, including banks and other financial institutions. > No change Future investment activity The Group operates in competitive markets and may not be able to compete effectively or profitably. In addition, to the extent that a project company’s actual costs incurred differ from forecast costs, for example, because of late construction, and cannot be passed on to sub-contractors or other third parties, investment returns and valuations may be adversely affected. Where patronage or volume risk is taken, the Directors review revenue assumptions and their sensitivities in detail prior to any investment commitment. The Group typically hedges cash flows arising from investment realisations or significant distributions in currencies other than Sterling. The intention is that projects are structured such that (i) day-to-day service provision is sub-contracted to qualified sub-contractors supported by appropriate security packages (ii) cost and price inflation risk in relation to the provision of services lies with sub-contractors (iii) performance deductions in relation to non-availability lie with sub-contractors (iv) future major maintenance costs and ongoing project company costs are reviewed annually and cost mitigation strategies adopted as appropriate. In overseas jurisdictions, the Group’s investments backed by governmental entities may ultimately be subject to sovereign risk. In establishing project contractual arrangements prior to making an investment, the credit standing and relevant experience of a sub-contractor are considered. PPP projects are normally supported by central and local government covenants, which significantly reduce the Group’s risk. The Group plans its human resources needs carefully, including appropriate local recruitment, when it bids for overseas projects. JLCT trustees make available considerable funds each year to relieve financial hardship through the provision of gratuities and other allowances. We have also chosen to voluntarily report Scope 3 emissions arising from our business travel and water consumption where information is available. Scope 2 - Location-based emissions (tCO 2 e) Scope 2 - Market-based emissions (tCO 2 ) 127.8 115.4 115.4 46 / John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY * EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ** NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Dr Phil Nolan Will Samuel Olivier Brousse Patrick O’D Bourke Anne Wade Dr Jeremy Beeton Toby Hiscock David Rough Carolyn Cattermole John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 / 47 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview **Dr Phil Nolan BSc, PHD, MBA Chairman Phil has been Chairman since joining John Laing in January 2010 but will be stepping down after the 2018 AGM. He came back to France in 2007 as Deputy CEO of Veolia Transport Group, responsible for French and US businesses. He was awarded CB in the 2013 New Year Honours and holds an honorary Doctorate of Engineering from Napier University. P M G Nolan O Brousse P O’D Bourke N T Hiscock J J Beeton D Rough A K Wade W M Samuel (appointed 7 December 2017) Biographical details of the current Directors can be found on page 47 of this Annual Report. In accordance with best practice, all Directors will retire at each AGM and offer themselves for re-election. He joins John Laing having held a number of other non-executive roles and senior positions throughout his career. At the end of each year, all Directors make a declaration concerning any conﬂicts they or their connected persons may have. Upon appointment, non-executive directors undertake an induction process to familiarise themselves with the Group’s activities, policies and key issues. The Group Finance Director is normally invited to attend meetings, along with other members of management as appropriate. In addition we reviewed and approved an anti-evasion policy on taxation as required by the Criminal Finances Act 2017. Any bonus above target (60% of salary) is deferred into shares vesting in equal tranches over one, two and three years subject to continued employment. Strategy To create value for shareholders through originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets internationally Focus on performance-related pay, with the emphasis on long-term performance Use of share-based incentives and share ownership guidelines for executives Performance targets which support sustainable long-term value creation Remuneration Policy John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 / 59 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview REMUNERATION RECEIVED BY THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2017 Long-Term £’000 Salary Benefits Pension 1 Bonus 2 Incentives 3 Total Olivier Brousse 434 2 56 342 774 1,608 Patrick O'D Bourke 336 12 43 251 514 1,156 1 Cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid net of employer’s national insurance. The measures used to assess corporate performance for 2018 will be: – NAV – Distributions (excluding from non-portfolio assets) – Divestments – New investments – Value enhancements – Profit before tax. Corporate performance will be assessed taking into account NAV, distributions (excluding from non-portfolio assets), disposals, new investments, value enhancements and profit before tax. The two main differences are the increased emphasis on performance-related pay for Executive Directors (through a higher variable pay opportunity) and a greater focus on long-term alignment (through bonus deferral, additional holding periods for LTIP awards and minimum shareholding guidelines). Any bonus earned for above target performance is deferred in shares, which vest subject to continued employment over one, two and three years. Shareholders’ equity was selected as net asset value is a key performance indicator for the Parent Company. Although the Group has a net deﬁned beneﬁt pension liability, IFRS 10 does not exclude companies with non-investment related liabilities from qualifying as investment entities. Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in project companies are measured on a combined basis at fair value principally using discounted cash flow methodology. Other non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. Under the Group’s valuation methodology, a base case discount rate for an operational project is derived from secondary market information and other available data points. A base case discount rate for an operational project is derived from secondary market information and other available data points. NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2017 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 / 97 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 6 SHARE-BASED INCENTIVES (CONTINUED) Deferred Share Bonus Plan In accordance with the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, 9,762 shares were awarded on 17 March 2017 to Executive Directors and certain senior executives in relation to that part of their annual bonus for 2016 which exceeded 60% of their base salary. These awards vest in equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of grant, normally subject to continued employment. Such other assets and liabilities are recorded at amortised cost which the Directors believe approximates to their fair value. The tables in section a) provide an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to their initial recognition at fair value. For the parent company and its recourse subsidiaries, financial risks are managed by a central treasury operation which operates within Board approved policies. The Group also holds investments in renewable energy projects whose fair value may vary with forecast energy prices to the extent they are not economically hedged through short to medium-term fixed price purchase agreements with electricity suppliers, or do not benefit from governmental support mechanisms at fixed prices. £ million Allotted, called up and fully paid: At 1 January 366,923,076 36.7 366,923,076 36.7 Issue of 37,058 ordinary shares of £0.10 each 37,058 – –– At 31 December 366,960,134 36.7 366,923,076 36.7 37,058 shares were issued in the year ended 31 December 2017 (2016 – nil) in relation to share awards vesting under the Group’s Deferred Share Bonus Plan (see note 6 for further details). Full provision has been made for all amounts which the Directors consider are likely to become payable on account of such claims. 27 EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE On 8 March 2018, the Group launched a 1 for 3 rights issue to raise £210 million, net of costs. These subsidiaries, referred to as “service companies”, are consolidated in the Group accounts rather than recorded at FVTPL. Jan 2016 26 £10 – £25 million Kabeltrasse Morbach GmbH & Co. KG Horath Wind Farm 81.82% Design, build, finance and operate nine 3.3 MW turbines in Germany. Nov 2016 24 £10 – £25 million HWF 1 Pty Limited Hornsdale Wind Farm (Phase 1) 30% Design, build, finance and operate 32 turbines to give 100 MW total installed capacity in Australia. Aug 2015 26 £10 – £25 million HWF 2 Pty Limited Hornsdale Wind Farm (Phase 2) 20% Design, build, finance and operate 32 turbines to give 100 MW total installed capacity in Australia. June 2016 26 <£10 million HWF 3 Pty Limited Hornsdale Wind Farm (Phase 3) 20% Design, build, finance and operate 35 turbines to give 109 MW total installed capacity in Australia. Oct 2016 31 £10 – £25 million Parc Eolien des Courtibeaux SAS St. Martin Wind Farm 100% Design, build, finance and operate five 2.05 MW turbines in France. Nov 2016 27 <£10 million Parc Eolien des Tournevents du Cos SAS Sommette Wind Farm 100% Design, build, finance and operate nine 2.4 MW turbines in France. Having announced my retirement on 7 December 2017, I will not stand for re-election as a Director of the Company. Your Board will be voting in favour of all the proposed resolutions and unanimously recommends that you do so as well. Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, all of its powers as a shareholder, provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers over the same share. It is recommended that you consult your ﬁnancial adviser and verify information obtained from these services before making any investment decision.