Softer foams offer unique sealing properties in many applications such as white goods or other very demanding environments. All business segments reported strong sales growth and our pipeline of commercial opportunities developed positively throughout the year. Investments The first phase of investment, HP1, at our site in Kentucky, USA has now been successfully commissioned, increasing Group high-pressure autoclave capacity by over 20%. We are pleased to announce that Doug Robertson will be replacing Richard as the Senior Independent Director upon his departure. Within this structure, business units and brand leaders have significant autonomy to operate in a dynamic environment. Key investments Zotefoams’ core autoclave technology is asset intensive with high barriers to entry on cost, lead-time and know-how. This positions Kentucky as a significant, stand- alone contributor to Group capacity, initially focused on AZOTE ® polyolefin foams, with the site large enough for further investment if needed. We therefore emerge as a better-informed organisation, more capable of managing similar investments in the future, whilst recognising that risks to execution remain on large and complex capital projects. The operational leverage impact of higher sales, while operating at capacity, meant that profits increased significantly in an environment of modest labour cost increases and stable prices for LDPE, our main raw material, despite a more difficult inflationary environment in some other materials and energy. Our licensing business MuCell Extrusion LLC (‘MEL ’) licenses a patented process that creates ‘micro-bubbles’ in the core of plastic parts or products by injecting gas into them as they are manufactured. MEL shares in the customers’ benefits by receiving a licence fee for IP and/or royalty on parts made. We are often working in conjunction with a channel partner and/or on applications where other solutions may be successful. MEL faces some similar challenges in working mainly with packaging converters who need to convince their end- user customers of the benefits provided. Revenue by market Packaging 34% Transportation 21% Building & Construction 13% Sport & Leisure 12% Industrial 10% Medical 6% Other 4% 11 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements How we invest, create and deliver Fundamental to our business model is our ability to invest for the long term in people, products and processes. Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 12 Our external context Alignment to three global megatrends We have built a clear long-term strategy for growth based around three long-term global megatrends that are driving demand for our products. Better healthcare has created a population boom, especially in the older age groups, while globally, discretionary spending power is rising rapidly. We sell AZOTE ® grades for automotive, medical, and packaging designed to minimise emissions and/or meet specific purity requirements. It also aids recycling and makes commonly used plastics float in water, thus aiding collection of any waste. Much of our AZOTE ® foam is used in permanent packaging or packaging that is designed to be reused, while foams used in transportation, which accounts for 21% of sales, are normally specified to the lightest weight for the required physical performance. Zotefoams’ products typically use less plastic than competitive solutions due to the cell structure of foam made in our autoclave process, giving us both a cost and environmental advantage. Demographics Regulation Environment Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 13 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Product and sales development journey Specific Zotefoams’ actions linked to our strategy and megatrends However, when applications are developed it is often possible to accelerate adoption across multiple customers or platforms. In order for return on capital to provide meaningful measurement, management has, therefore, altered the definition to recognise the changing financial structure of our business, where a) revolving credit facilities are treated as long-term debt, and b) major capacity and infrastructure investments, such as in Walton, KY , which are expected to require considerable capital over a number of years before being commissioned as production assets, are excluded from these calculations until the point of commissioning. Over the past three years we have developed our existing site in Walton, KY, USA with buildings, infrastructure, a large, high-pressure autoclave and extrusion capability. This foaming capacity will be fed from assets currently used to manufacture materials for the North American market. Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 16 Producing best-in-class solutions AZOTE ® foams have been selected by an Italian defence contractor for use in a series of ultra-hi-tech unmanned crafts. The chosen materials deliver industry-leading fire resistance, lightweight and consistent quality, all made possible using Zotefoams’ nitrogen-based autoclave technology. This physical expansion process differentiates Zotefoams from competitors manufacturing similar foams with low-density polyethylene (‘LDPE’), which is our main raw material. Automobile manufacturers have ambitious plans to produce more than a hundred new electric and battery powered models in the next couple of years. ZOTEK ® N nylon foams can withstand the higher operating temperatures generated from conventional engine and battery packs, which are typically used on hybrid vehicles. T-FIT ® Clean was developed as a unique thermal insulation system designed for these demanding, highly controlled production environments. Energy cost increases, together with, for the most part, non-recurring inventory adjustments in HPP and MEL, held back some of this margin gain. Distribution and administrative costs The Group continues to pursue its expansion strategy, founded on proprietary cellular-materials technology with an increasing portfolio of differentiated products. This policy is kept under frequent review and formally approved by the Board on an annual basis. This was offset by a translation loss, primarily on the Company’s US dollar receivables, of £0.51m (2016 gain: £1.98m). It is estimated that, for every one percent move in the USD/£ rate, profit moves by £0.06m hedged and £0.17m unhedged. Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 22 The Board performs post investment appraisals within an appropriate timeframe following start up. A principal risk is one that has the potential to affect significantly our strategic objectives, financial position or future performance. The Group has invested in its Kentucky, USA site, which provides multi-site capability, subject to capacity, on many polyolefin products. In the meantime, such action has already included providing mainland EU employees with residency advice and support. The Group is operationally geared and its experience is that, in challenging circumstances, operational labour costs can be reduced, polymer prices generally fall with reduced economic demand, giving a cost benefit, and cash can be generated from both reducing working capital as well as slowing capital expenditure projects to help offset the effects of a downturn. Risk Group revenues and profits could be impacted by the loss, insolvency or divergence of interest with a major customer. These relationships, with balanced commercial contracts, are by their nature longer term, providing a unique technical solution and competitive advantage to the ZOTEK ® foams customers. Cultural diversity 70 19 19 23 24 40 5 7 16 12 18 2 4 3 3 32 7 3 13 12 16 11 3 11 7 Administration Production Technical Engineering Distribution Americas Africa Asia UK Europe Key Left to right, top to bottom: IT Systems Support, Fabrication, Graduate Engineers, Technical Sustainability Doing the right thing Zotefoams considers that the management of safety, health, environmental, social and ethical matters forms a key element of effective corporate governance. Zotefoams is making advances in both the types of foams that we offer and their uses for existing materials. Unlike foam manufactured by the Group’s competitors, no other chemical additives or fillers are used in our process. The nature of these incidents varied, but they all related to incorrect manual handling or slips and falls. In October 2009, the Company entered into a Climate Change Levy (‘CCL ’) agreement, which involves meeting specific targets to reduce energy consumption. At GKN plc, Richard was a Divisional Managing Director for their Powder Metallurgy, Off highway and Auto Components Divisions. The Board has three principal committees which report into it and function within defined Terms of Reference. Mr Good has no executive positions, but is currently a Non-Executive Director of two other companies (Elementis plc and Anglia Water Services Limited). All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate and further training is provided if required or requested. Benefits Executive Directors will be provided with a car allowance, private medical insurance, death-in-service cover and, if they participate in the SIP , Matching Shares. Retirement benefits For 2018, contributions to the defined contribution pension plan (or cash alternative payments) are as follows: D B Stirling – 15.75% pensionable salary. Instead, D B Stirling receives a cash contribution in lieu of contributions to his DC Pension Plan. Before September 2016, D B Stirling made contributions to his DC Pension Plan via a salary sacrifice scheme as described above. These Matching Shares are first available for vesting three years after being awarded or on leaving if the person is considered to be a ‘good leaver’. 2017 2016 Total remuneration¹ £000 16,562 14,903 Executive Directors’ remuneration 2 £000 885 885 Profit after tax £000 (including exceptional items) 6,008 5,696 Shareholder distributions 3 £000 2,547 2,474 1 Social security costs paid by the Group have been excluded from this figure. D B Stirling and G C McGrath, the Executive Directors, have service contracts which are terminable on 12 months’ written notice. In the UK, there is a Joint Consultative Committee (‘ JCC’), which comprises an employee representative from each department. No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. Where necessary, amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting policies. In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Group’s corporate assets do not generate separate cash inflows and are utilised by more than one CGU. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period. Key assumptions: Sales growth This is based on past performance and management’s expectations of market development over the three-year forecast period. All outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2017 of these companies have been guaranteed by the Company and no liability is expected to arise under this guarantee. Group Finance monitors cash flows to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity when forward currency contracts mature. Pension benefits are linked to the members’ final pensionable salaries and service at their retirement (or date of leaving if earlier). Originally under the Plan executive bonuses over 40% of eligible salary were held as deferred shares for three years. Notes Continued Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 109 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Five-year trading summary 2017 £m 2016 £m 2015 £m 2014 £m 2013 £m Group revenue 70.1 57.4 53.9 48.9 44.6 Operating profit (excluding exceptional item) 9.4 7.6 6.3 5.6 4.2 Profit before tax (excluding exceptional item) 8.8 7.2 6.0 5.3 3.9 Profit before tax 7.5 7.0 6.0 4.0 3.9 Profit after tax 6.0 5.7 4.8 3.3 3.2 Capital expenditure (including intangibles) 12.2 12.6 9.1 7.6 4.2 Cash generated from operations 10.0 6.4 8.4 6.0 6.6 Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items (p) 16.04 13.69 11.07 10.69 8.04 Basic earnings per share (p) 13.70 13.25 11.07 8.20 8.04 Dividends per ordinary share (p) 5.93 5.75 5.60 5.45 5.30 Zotefoams plc Annual Report 2017 110 Notice of the 2018 Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal advice from your stockbroker, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.