Civil Aerospace 53% Nuclear 5% Marine 7% Power Systems 20% Defence Aerospace 15% 02 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Group at a Glance Group at a Glance Underlying revenue mix in 2017 Underlying revenue £15,090m Underlying operating profit £1,175m Free cash flow £273m Patents approved for filing 704 Engineers (year end) 18,245 Gross R&D expenditure £1.4bn Countries 50 Employees (year average) 50,000 Read more in our Business Review on pages 20 to 41 We are one of the world’s leading industrial technology companies, creating power and propulsion systems for use on land, at sea and in the air. I would draw attention to the fact that we have sustained investment in capital expenditure and R&D notwithstanding short-term financial pressures. There are significant risks – most notably product reliability failure, a disorderly Brexit or an external global shock that would disrupt travel. Profitability, and return on capital in particular, are crucial strategic measures but for the short term, cash flow is our dominant financial metric. Our short-term focus over the next two to three years is on meeting customer commitments and requirements whilst generating substantial increases in cash flow. Civil Aerospace had some notable successes in 2017 with record levels of large engine deliveries, further expanding the installed fleet and generating service revenue growth. Looking forward, sustaining this improvement and delivering increasing cash flow generation will strengthen our position as one of the world’s leading industrial technology companies. Defence Aerospace had another solid year as we renewed a number of core US contracts and further developed our service delivery capability. Capitalising on the rapidly advancing digital techniques, our aim is to create an agile, highly productive and cost-competitive manufacturing footprint. ITP Aero will retain organisational autonomy allowing it to continue serving other original equipment manufacturers (OEM) as customers, while meeting our governance and compliance standards. Four key initiatives have been launched as part of a change programme within the Rolls-Royce finance function to deliver on our financial priorities. Restoring our shareholder payments to an appropriate level over time as free cash flow grows will be a key capital allocation priority. Each programme has brought together more than 20,000 parts to create engines that have undergone rigorous testing at facilities around the world. The Trent XWB-84 saw much improved OE economics and has achieved over 1.2 million flying hours in service with unprecedented levels of reliability. Engineering and R&D Significant milestones have been achieved in each of the three new large engine programmes on their progression towards entry into service. A broad consensus forecasts that air traffic (revenue passenger kilometres) will grow by approximately 5% compound annual growth rate over the next 20 years. In parallel, a number of engine demonstrators with embedded electrical generators have been successfully run; and work on innovative hybrid aircraft demonstrator projects is ongoing. — If the business experiences significant pricing pressure from increased competitor challenge in key markets, then financial performance may be impacted. OE revenues increased 4% through higher transport and patrol volumes, partially offset by lower combat sales following the completion of Middle Eastern delivery contracts in early 2017. A joint venture agreement with Turkish industrial firm Kale Group positions us well to develop an indigenous combat engine for Turkey targeting the TF-X fighter jet. Strategic aftermarket initiatives looked to deepen customer relationships and distribution capability, including an enhanced spares supply contract with Aviall, a Boeing company, covering all defence variants of the AE engine fleet. — If the business suffers a major disruption in it supply chain, then delivery schedules would be delayed, damaging financial performance and reputation. Under new leadership the business was able to achieve a material reduction in product variants and greater R&D discipline while targeting low-emission technologies. — Increased utilisation in resource industries, especially oil & gas and mining, is driving aftermarket service demand after several years of challenging market conditions. — There is continued growth forecast in emerging markets, e.g. China and India, where domestic partnerships including local value creation will continue to be important. Operational and strategic review Lower activity within commercial marine reflected the weak market environment as deep water exploration activities remained at depressed levels. There was also activity across the merchant sector including Norwegian ferry operator contracts for new gas engines and thrusters along with further auto-crossing system product sales. Rolls-Royce successfully demonstrated this new technology by partnering with global towage operator, Svitzer, including the first trial of a remotely operated commercial vessel that took place in Copenhagen harbour. — If continuing market downturn leaves key customers, suppliers and competitors exposed to strain, then there could be further consolidation impacting the competitive landscape. — If market shifts in technology (e.g. electrification and digitalisation) proceed at a faster rate than expected, then the business may not be positioned to take full advantage of this potential growth. — If political tensions prevent trade or co-operation with state-owned potential partner organisations, then access to anticipated nuclear opportunities in the UK and overseas may not be available. Together the partners in this consortium believe that SMRs represent a unique opportunity for the UK to become a global leader in innovative nuclear technologies, creating up to 40,000 highly skilled jobs, opening up valuable export markets and producing energy for as low as £60/MWh – competitive against wind and solar. Technologies for today and tomorrow The increasingly demanding requirements of civil aviation are driving game-changing innovation in our aerospace gas turbines. We have brought agency engineering contractors who support non-core tasks in new product introduction programmes into our direct headcount following a reinterpretation of export control regulations. Electrification is already core to our Marine business where permanent magnet electric thrusters, hybrid ships and battery powered ferries are indicative of this change. During the year we strengthened our approach to governance and risk management in this area by introducing an executive-level environment & sustainability committee. We are building on our strong engineering heritage to produce state-of-the-art electro-mechanical and hybrid power systems, combined with digital solutions. As a result of these continued issues with data completeness we have extended our total solid and liquid waste reduction target from 2020 to 2025. PROJECT SUNSHINE Over 16,700 photovoltaic panels have been installed on the roof and car port of our Seletar campus in Singapore. More than 30,000 employees took part in the survey this year which gave a snap-shot of progress against our key engagement drivers. We believe there is greater impact in lasting engagement than one-off cash contributions, but do make charitable donations aligned to our strategy. Group – reported results Reconciliation between underlying and reported results Year to 31 December £m Revenue Profit before financing Financing Profit/(loss) before tax 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Underlying 15,090 13,783 1,175 915 (104) (102) 1,071 813 Revenue recognised at exchange rate on date of transaction 1 1,217 1,172 – – – – – – Mark-to-market adjustments on derivatives 8 – – 24 – 2,648 (4,420) 2,672 (4,420) Related foreign exchange adjustments 1 – – 345 570 257 (151) 602 419 Movements on other financial instruments – – – – 11 (8) 11 (8) Effects of acquisition accounting 2 – – (129) (115) – – (129) (115) Impairments 3 – – (24) (219) – – (24) (219) Exceptional restructuring 4 – – (104) (129) – – (104) (129) Acquisitions and disposals 5 – – 798 (3) – – 798 (3) Financial penalties 6 – – – (671) – – – (671) Post-retirement schemes 7 – – – (306) 1 3 1 (303) Other – – – (1) (1) 1 (1) – Reported 16,307 14,955 2,085 41 2,812 (4,677) 4,897 (4,636) Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 51 Strategic Report Additional Financial Review STRATEGIC REPORT net funds outflow in ITP Aero was £14m; excluding the impact of ITP Aero, free cash flow would have been £273m. The Group has a number of treasury policies that are designed to hedge residual risks using financial derivatives (foreign exchange, interest rates and commodity price risk). — Where possible, locating our facilities and supply chain in countries with a low level of political risk and/or ensuring that we maintain dual capability. As described on page 197, the Group meets its funding requirements through a mixture of shareholders’ funds, bank borrowings, bonds and notes. He is able to provide an investor perspective drawing on his experience as chief operating officer of ValueAct, the Group’s largest shareholder. We also undertook an open and meaningful shareholder consultation exercise on our remuneration policy, approved with a majority of over 95% at the AGM in May 2017. The Board has established certain principal committees to assist it in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, providing dedicated focus on particular areas, as set out below. At the end of 2017, a communication video from Irene was made available to all employees updating them on her role and insights so far. The event was a huge success and based on some helpful feedback, we have already identified changes that will make future meetings even better. As mentioned on page 47, during 2017 we launched a new strategy with global targets to increase female participation at all levels of our organisation by 2020. Existing long-term incentive awards will be pro-rated based on service and subject to achievement of plan performance conditions at the normal vesting dates. As a result, we were satisfied that the going concern and viability statements have been prepared on an appropriate basis. All risks are managed through a risk management system (RMS – described on page 59) in accordance with policies and guidance approved by the Board. Non-audit services provided by KPMG In order to safeguard the auditor’s independence and objectivity, and in accordance with the FRC’s Ethical Standard, we do not engage KPMG for any non-audit services except where it is work that they must, or are clearly best-suited to, perform. We also welcomed the introduction of a new leading indicator to track planned maintenance schedule adherence for high-consequence safety critical equipment. We examined specific cases, how these were being handled, findings, corrective measures taken and the relationship management maintained with third parties involved. This covered how engine documentation on legacy platforms is registered to maintain product knowledge and enable continuing support under the business’ historic engines policy. Committee members Member Attended Eligible to attend Sir Kevin Smith (chairman) 6 6 Lewis Booth 1 1 Ruth Cairnie 6 6 Brad Singer 6 6 Jasmin Staiblin 5 6 See page 70 for reasons of non-attendance. I have been pleased with our progress this year as the Group has carried out a detailed review of its technology strategy. However, the Directors do not consider that it is possible to determine a reliable fair value for this intangible asset. It has been assumed that ITP Aero did not have any significant trading activity between the acquisition date and 31 December 2017. Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill or for temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit. The trade receivables of these customers that are not sold will be classified and disclosed as fair value through other comprehensive income from 2018. The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, aggregate to £188m (2016: £276m). These have been estimated using cash flows from the most recent forecasts prepared by management, which are consistent with past experience and external sources of information on market conditions. C Fair values of derivative financial assets and liabilities are estimated by discounting expected future contractual cash ﬂows using prevailing interest rate curves. Other price risk – The Group’s cash equivalent balances represent investments in money-market instruments, with a term of up to three months. The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Financial Statements. It does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when one exists.