the marketing industry has been through a period of substantial change during this time, bringing with it extraordinary complexity. we acquired additional skills to address some of the emerging opportunities, and our marketing performance optimisation segment was created. there have also been some important new hires of senior executives, individuals with both operational and industry-based skills who will help us capitalise on our position in the marketplace. this means ensuring that marketers work with their partners to choose the level of transparency which is right for them. it is encouraging to hear marc pritchard, in his recent address at isba, put increased focus on data and analytics, but change will take time in an industry obsessed with shiny new objects often at the expense of employing rigour to drive real business impact. rob succeeds michael higgins who will retire after 12 years as chairman of ebiquity, following the agm on 9 may. mike campbell head of international effectiveness “ marketers are rewarded by the c-suite for delivering real and tangible roi. this is supported by specialist insight, market, and earned media research experts who combine automated analytics with native- language human analysis. in this way, we empower our clients to take rightful ownership of their digital marketing strategy, technology, data, and media spend. it is through talents like these that we will achieve our objective of becoming the world’s leading marketing analytics consultancy. this programme was started in q4 2016 by the recruitment of new team members whose purpose is to drive operational efficiency and synergies across practices. our media practice in australia has developed an innovative methodology to benchmark and analyse online video advertising performance. there is a risk of an industry-wide talent shortage for data scientists in particular as demand by clients, agencies, internet platforms and publishers increases. there is a risk of an industry-wide talent shortage for data scientists in particular as demand by clients, agencies, internet platforms and publishers increases. ebiquity approach we conducted a comprehensive assessment of mazda’s media investment, price discounts, new car releases, competitor activity, and pr activations along the whole purchase lifecycle. and as subway is a franchised operation, the team needed to address franchisee questions about what central marketing delivered through social. it’s important that everyone relevant in an advertiser business – across multiple functions and levels of responsibility – is involved. an economics graduate from cambridge university, richard subsequently qualified as a chartered accountant with price waterhouse (now pwc) in london. andrew noble (chief financial officer) is responsible for the group’s worldwide functions in finance, treasury and taxation. in addition, there were a small number of meetings convened on short notice to consider ad hoc matters. the company secretary attends all board meetings and is available to advise on any corporate governance issues which may arise. actual results may significantly differ from those estimates often as a result of the need to make assumptions about matters which are uncertain. directors are eligible for cash bonuses as a percentage of base salary, dependent on individual and company performance against established financial targets. as such, a composite guarantee has been given by all significant subsidiary companies in the uk, us and germany. trade receivables the group operates in an industry where most of its customers are reputable and well-established multinational or large national businesses. customers with any overdue debts are contacted for payment and progress is tracked on a credit control report. based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk. provisions provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle that obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. as such, a composite guarantee has been given by all significant subsidiary companies in the uk, us and germany. company registration registered office citypoint one ropemaker street london ec2y 9aw company number 03967525 108 ebiquity plc annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2017 ana association of national advertisers aor agency of record apac asia pacific apms alternative performance measures cagr compound annual growth rate capital the cancellation of reduction the share premium account cgus cash-generating units cma competition and markets authority the company ebiquity plc constant calculated by taking current year currency denominated results restated at last year’s foreign exchange rates ebit earnings before interest and tax ebitda earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ebt employee benefit trust eip executive incentive plan emi scheme enterprise management incentive scheme eps earnings per share esop executive share option plan fmc fairbrother marsh company limited frs 101 financial reporting standard 101 ‘reduced disclosure framework’ the group ebiquity plc and its subsidiaries highlighted highlighted items comprise non-cash items charges and non-recurring items which are highlighted in the income statement because separate disclosure is considered relevant in understanding the underlying performance of the business iasb international accounting standards board ifrs international financial reporting standards ipa institute of practitioners in advertising isas international standards on auditing isba incorporated society of british advertisers kpis key performance indicators libor london interbank offered rate like‑for‑like prior year results are adjusted to include the results of recent acquisitions as if they had been owned for the same period in the prior year lti long-term incentive mi market intelligence mpo marketing performance optimisation mvm media value measurement net debt long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents pwc pricewaterhousecoopers llp qca code quoted companies alliance – corporate governance code for small and mid-size quoted companies 2013 rbs royal bank of scotland rcf revolving credit facility stratigent stratigent llc tsr total shareholder returns ucsop unapproved company share option plan underlying underlying performance refers performance to the results of operations before highlighted items wfa world federation of advertisers glossary designed and produced by www.lyonsbennett.com printed on splendorgel extra white, an fsc® mixed sources paper manufactured using pulp from well managed forests at a mill accredited with emas and iso 14001 environmental standards.