3 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Strategic Report Financial statements Other information Who we serve Our hospitals span the country, serving a diversified patient mix, made up of: • Private medical insurance (‘PMI’) • S e l f- p a y • NHS patients Read more Page 4 and 5 Service coverage where it’s needed Our network of hospitals covers major population centres across the country. There is increasing acceptance that the country needs to spend more on healthcare as a percentage of gross domestic product (‘GDP’). Spire Healthcare hospital Consultant N HS Fun di n g s o ur c e s Private Patient Self-pay NHS e-Referral Service Private Medical Insurance GP referral Open, direct or named referrals Local contracting NHS hospital (including foundation trust) Our resources and relationships The sustainability of our business model relies on several interconnected resources and relationships. Board developments In October, we were delighted to secure the services of Justin Ash as Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’). Simon has been CFO since 2012 and, whilst I was undergoing treatment for an illness last year, also assumed the role of interim CEO. It is by working together closely and making a positive contribution to the business that they drive our strong culture. I am determined that Spire Healthcare will be famous for delivering the very best in quality and clinical care. PMI is currently about half of our business, but it remains largely a benefit provided by companies for their employees. Major contracts with NHS trusts are unlikely to grow in the future, while e-Referral is still not fully adopted. Operationally, we will have one best way of working in increasing areas, aligning all our hospitals around simple, national systems and operating approach – one ‘Spire Way’ of working – while leaving room for local best practice and strong leadership by our hospitals’ senior management teams. At Spire Healthcare we’re a team – the centre supports us to deliver outstanding care in each of our hospitals. Indeed, surgical site infection following hip and knee replacement reduced once again to the lowest level on Spire Healthcare’s record. We have also introduced a programme of human factors training for our colleagues and made this available to consultants who practise with us. Spire Leeds Hospital has everything – imaging, high dependency unit, cardiologists – to reassure patients and consultants that they will receive a comprehensive, quality service. Spire Bushey Hospital, our largest facility in the south-east, is benefiting from a two-phase investment which will significantly increase its capacity. The result ensures that all secondary conditions relevant to any one patient can be clearly documented and accurately coded. As she says: “I lead a team that is completely focused on providing flexible capacity for our consultants and patients. Spire Portsmouth Hospital achieved theatre utilisation rates of 79% in January 2017, and by October it had improved still further, to 84%. Very soon we will have one of our store staff in theatre at all times to improve that link still further. 3 A final dividend of 2.5 pence per ordinary share will be proposed at the Company’s annual general meeting on 24 May 2018. Our challenges It has been widely reported that there is currently a shortage of nurses and doctors in the UK. As Jack says: “I asked about training in my first interview and Spire Healthcare has supported me all the way since. Our whistleblowing helpline is managed by a third-party provider, enabling colleagues to raise any concerns they may have about issues of safety or wrongdoing, if necessary, anonymously. 48 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 A key focus is to reduce carbon emissions associated with our usage of electricity and natural gas. Key projects this year included investment in areas such as lighting, mechanical ventilation, building controls, heating and domestic hot water services. For purposes of baselining and ongoing comparison, it is required to express the GHG emissions using a carbon intensity metric. The Group takes all instances of incidents (including near misses), complaints, control failures, regulatory non-compliance or other risk events very seriously. Further consolidation of the PMI market could adversely impact Spire Healthcare’s relative bargaining power in any ongoing commercial arrangements. The Board manages this risk by regularly reviewing market conditions and economic indicators to assess whether actions are required. Business processes are also kept under review and user education regularly carried out to minimise the possibility of ransomware incidents. Tony has also previously served as a non-executive director of Bioquell Plc, Southern Housing Group, and the charity, Scope. Prior to joining Cinven, he worked with an international consulting firm on multidisciplinary engineering projects in the UK and southern Africa. Jean- Jacques has also been a non-executive director at the Milton Keynes University Foundation Trust, chairing its Quality Committee. In his role, Neil oversees Spire Healthcare’s business development strategy both at the local hospital level and corporately. At this time Simon Gordon agreed to act as Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis until a full-time appointment was made. John served as our Senior Independent Director from Admission in July 2014 but chose not to seek re-election at last year’s annual general meeting. After an extensive search which I led with the assistance of Heidrick & Struggles, we were delighted to appointed Peter Bamford as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director. The principal conclusions of Independent Audit Limited’s review were presented by their lead facilitator and discussed at our meeting in November. Justin Ash, on appointment as Chief Executive Officer, spent considerable time learning about the business through a number of hospital visits and meeting colleagues. During the year, there were in excess of 230 individual meetings, conference presentations, group lunches and telephone briefings with investors. In addition the external auditors undertook sample-based substantive testing on private revenues, checking invoices back to procedure and price list information across a number of contracts. As this process involves some degree of estimation there is a risk that properties are held in the financial statements at inappropriate carrying values. Our Internal Audit team will be fully resourced during Q1 and will start undertaking regular audits in each of our hospitals on a risk rotational basis and following up on agreed improvements to ensure they are effectively implemented as well as completing a number of key corporate audits around governance. She has been working closely with our Group Medical Director, Dr Jean-Jacques de Gorter, driving forward a programme of continuous development and ever improving clinical quality. When holding our Committee meetings at hospitals, we extend the visit in order to engage with Hospital Directors, their senior management teams and front line staff. Our clinical assurance methodology follows that of the Care Quality Commission (‘CQC’) domains – Safe, Effective, Responsive, Caring, and Well-led. Health care, in all its guises, and however technically advanced it may become, will always be an intensely personal activity. Peter Bamford, Committee Chair 77 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Strategic Report Financial statements Other information While Spire Healthcare employs a large majority of female staff and the Company’s gender pay gap is lower than average, we recognise that there is further progress to be made towards better gender representation at Board and senior leadership levels. Alignment between pay and performance While the Company has made positive progress in a number of strategic areas, trading conditions for Spire Healthcare remained challenging during 2017. Whilst no maximum limit exists, individual benefit arrangements take into account a number of factors, including market practice for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators. They are set by taking into account a number of factors, including market practice for comparable roles at appropriate pay comparators. Shares issued out of treasury will count towards these limits for so long as this is required under institutional shareholder guidelines. Garry Watts received an annual salary of £600,000 for that role, but did not receive any pension allowance or LTIP awards. 5 John Gildersleeve stepped down from the Board on 26 May 2017 and his share interests are shown as at this date. Mediclinic Jersey Limited has given notice that Danie Meintjes will not stand for re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting. Service contracts Justin Ash will put himself up for election at the annual general meeting to be held on 24 May 2018. During 2016, Garry Watts fulfilled the role of Chief Executive Officer from 14 March 2016 to 12 June 2017 for which he was paid £714.6k. We adopted a fully substantive approach to addressing this fraud risk, and as such did not test or rely on the controls identified; • for PMI revenue, we have tested a representative sample and agreed prices from SAP billings (revenue) to insurer contracts, price lists, or other supporting correspondence as applicable. Based on our audit procedures performed, we concluded that revenue for the year is appropriately recognised and free from material misstatement. The high volume of costs being capitalised over all property, plant and equipment categories means that it is harder for management to detect material inappropriate items. Our audit procedures found no material instances of expenditure which had been inappropriately capitalised to property, plant and equipment. Based on our audit procedures performed, we concluded that costs have been appropriately capitalised to property, plant, and equipment. Subsequently, such assets are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method, less any allowance for impairment. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Out-patient cases generally do not involve surgical procedures and revenue is recognised on an individual component basis when performance obligations are satisfied. At 31 December 2017, the Group’s future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases amounted to £1,587.6 million, on an undiscounted basis. For example, an increase of 3.0% in the pre-tax discount rate to 12.0%, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments. The provision in relation to Ian Paterson costs have been determined before account is taken of any potential further recoveries from insurers. ‘Boiler room’ scams From time-to-time, in common with other listed companies, shareholders may receive unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas-based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, using persuasive Legal advisers Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Remuneration consultants Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams in what often turn out to be worthless, non-existent or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.