Key risks for 2018 • A materially lower than expected production performance at the Kraken field • Unexpected shutdowns on producing assets for an extended period of time FOR MORE DETAILS SEE PAGES 40 to 47 Highlights 01 Highlights 03 Achievements 04 Strategy and business model 05 Track record 06 EnQuest values 07 Key performance indicators 08 Chairman’s statement 10 Chief Executive’s report 12 Delivering Kraken 14 Magnus & SVT acquisition 16 PM8/Seligi 18 Operating review 18 North Sea operations 26 The Kraken development 27 Malaysia operations 29 Hydrocarbon assets 30 Reserves and resources 31 Financial review 36 Corporate responsibility review 40 Risks and uncertainties 02 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2017 This Strategic Report includes details of EnQuest’s strategy, business model, capabilities, values, long-term track record and key risks. Alongside this, time was invested to understand the culture of our business through an online survey and subsequent focus groups. Operational performance EnQuest was proud to deliver first oil from Kraken on schedule while significantly reducing full cycle gross capital expenditure. Production at other assets was also reduced by lower water injection, natural declines and an unscheduled shutdown in December of the third-party operated Forties Pipeline. The second processing train, which was brought online during November, assisted in bringing gross production rates to over 40,000 Bopd. Magnus is a good quality reservoir with large volumes in place, providing opportunities for infill drilling and the revitalisation of wells. Rigorous cost discipline and a proven project execution model: just two of the factors behind its journey to first oil. This centrepiece development in EnQuest’s portfolio will drive production and cash flow growth, which should enable the Group to begin reducing its debt. These included: A good understanding of a productive reservoir • Exceptionally well mapped, with 3D seismic used to place wells • Two discovery wells and nine appraisal wells were drilled • In total, almost 50,000 feet measured depth of reservoir section has been drilled to date • Deep directional resistivity data acquired in all development wells Excellent drilling performance • The rig deployed on Kraken was able to operate through challenging weather conditions, with recorded downtime levels of less than 5% • A highly experienced and competent rig crew delivered continuous improvements by utilising lessons learned in each phase • Drilling at the second and third drill centres (‘DC’s) were completed significantly ahead of schedule • The team delivered the world’s longest open hole interval gravel packed with OptiPac screens at 4,347 feet on DC3 A project-specific model • A comparatively small core team managed a limited number of larger contractors charged with delivering larger workscopes • Fewer interfaces and greater scope for contractors to pursue efficient progress in their specialist areas underpinned our ability to deliver with agility and efficiency • Tried-and-tested technologies and systems resulted in important cost efficiencies As a result of the above initiatives and a strong focus on cost control and commercial agreements, the full cycle gross project capex is now expected to be approximately $2.3 billion, down more than 25% from the projected figure of $3.2 billion at project sanction. MAGNUS & SVT ACQUISITION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2017 With their integrated skills, operational scale, cost structures and high levels of operating efficiency, we have seen what EnQuest can do on the Thistle, Deveron and Dons fields that were previously operated by BP . When combined with NORTHERN NORTH SEA OPERATIONS better plant uptime, these programmes enabled Thistle production rates to finish the year strongly. Gas from these three fields is ‘sweetened’ at SVT before being shipped to Magnus, for Enhanced Oil Recovery and onward export. This reduction was primarily driven by lower volumes at Alma/Galia reflecting Electric Submersible Pump (‘ESP’) related well shut-ins, storm-related production outages and natural declines. GREATER KITTIWAKE AREA (‘GKA’) SCOLTY/CRATHES Operating review CONTINUED ASSET DATA AND 2018 WORK PROGRAMME Producing asset Other licences Discovery under evaluation 25 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30/25c 30/24c 30/24b Galia Alma 16/26a Alba • Working interest at end of 2017: – 65% in both fields • Decommissioning liabilities: – As per working interest • Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (‘FPSO’) vessel with subsea wells 2018 and beyond A well workover campaign is scheduled for the summer of 2018, aiming to increase production levels by replacing three failed ESPs. The second processing train, which was brought online during November, assisted in bringing gross production rates to over 40,000 Bopd. 4 Contingent resources relate to technically recoverable hydrocarbons for which commerciality has not yet been determined and are stated on a best technical case or ‘2C’ basis. During 2016, the Group entered into commodity hedging contracts to hedge a portion of its 2017 production against fluctuations in oil prices. EnQuest continually reviews its currency exposures and when appropriate looks at opportunities to enter into foreign exchange hedging contracts. These forecasts and sensitivity analyses allow management to mitigate any liquidity or covenant compliance risks in a timely manner. Prolonged low oil prices, cost increases and production delays or outages could further threaten the Group’s liquidity and/or ability to comply with relevant covenants. 36 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate responsibility review In our drive for operational excellence we remain focused on continual improvement through the early detection and resolution of issues. We also completed comprehensive UK and Malaysian HSE&A audit programmes, with outcomes fed into our 2018 Continual Improvement Programme. Combining these staff groups is a great opportunity to bolster the North Sea business and add depth, particularly offshore. North Sea We have continued to raise funds for Archway, an Aberdeen-based charity which supports young people and adults with learning disabilities. As part of our community service project for 2017, EnQuest Petroleum Production Malaysia organised an event at District 21 Putrajaya with Good Samaritan Home. RISK APPETITE Production The Group’s production is critical to its success and is subject to a variety of risks including: subsurface uncertainties; operating in a mature field environment; potential for significant unexpected shutdowns; and unplanned expenditure (particularly where remediation may be dependent on suitable weather conditions offshore). Lower than expected reservoir performance or insufficient addition of new resources may have a material impact on the Group’s future growth. Prolonged low oil prices, cost increases and production delays or outages could threaten the Group’s liquidity and/or ability to comply with relevant covenants. Related KPIs – B, C, F, G, H The Group recognises that significant leverage has been required to fund its growth as low oil prices have impacted revenues. Further, as described above, the Group’s focus on production efficiency supports mitigation of a low oil price environment. Jonathan worked at Credit Suisse and then Lehman Brothers, advising on a wide range of transactions with equity advisory. Jonathan worked at Credit Suisse and then Lehman Brothers, advising on a wide range of transactions with equity advisory. He joined EnQuest in 2016 from BG Group plc, where his most recent role was head of assurance, advising the board and chief executive on investment decisions. Prior to joining EnQuest, Stefan was a partner at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP heading its energy and natural resources practice in the Asia-Pacific region. He joined EnQuest in 2016 from BG Group plc, where his most recent role was head of assurance, advising the board and chief executive on investment decisions. Prior to joining EnQuest, Stefan was a partner at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP heading its energy and natural resources practice in the Asia-Pacific region. This is critical for providing assurance that the Executive Directors are exercising good judgement in delivery of strategy and decision making. An internal Board effectiveness evaluation was conducted during 2017, and further details on this are outlined in the Corporate Governance Report (refer to page 58). This allows employees and contractors to raise any concerns about business practices in confidence through an independently appointed third party. The Committee has also taken into account management’s longstanding and significant alignment with shareholders through exposure to equity. • Where the threshold level of performance is met for each element, bonuses will begin to accrue on a sliding scale from 0%. Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with EnQuest. The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but their terms are set out in a letter of appointment. Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise. An Executive Director’s annual bonus may also be tied to additional objectives that cover their own specific area of key accountabilities and responsibilities. 3 Any bonus that exceeds 100% of the Executive Director’s salary is converted into EnQuest shares to be retained for a further two years until April 2020. In addition, senior managers are encouraged to present at Board meetings when their specialist area of expertise is under discussion. For further information, please see the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 40 to 47 in this year’s Annual Report. Where EnQuest has less than 50% operational control of an asset it is not included within the MCR reporting boundary. We will focus on management’s estimation process including whether bias exists in the determination of reserves and resources. • Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above. Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business; enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, location management in all full scope entities; and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above. This listing is of standards and interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects to be applicable at a future date. This means that it will apply IFRS 16 to all contracts entered into before 1 January 2019 and identified as leases in accordance with IAS 17. Contracts which have not been considered or identified as a lease will continue to be accounted for in line with their historical treatment. Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as a financial liability are remeasured through profit or loss. The effects of changes in estimates do not give rise to prior year adjustments and are dealt with prospectively. These forecasts and sensitivity analyses allow management to mitigate any liquidity or covenant compliance risks in a timely manner. Provisions Decommissioning Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the Group has an obligation: to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant; to restore the site on which it is located; and when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made. While these changes do not impact North Sea ring fence activities directly, they have an impact on the current year Group tax charge where North Sea ring fence losses are offset against mainstream corporate tax profits which would otherwise be exposed due to the operation of these new rules. The impairment of Alma/Galia is primarily driven by performance issues relating to Electric Submersible Pumps and underlying natural declines in fields. Discounted cash flow models comprising asset-by-asset life of field projections using Level 3 inputs (based on IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy) have been used to determine the recoverable amounts. Oil prices are based on Dated Brent forward price curve for the first three years and thereafter at $70/bbl from 2021. At 31 December 2017, $7.0 million was placed on short-term deposit in order to cash collateralise the Group’s letter of credit. The facility is able to be drawn down against in instalments and accrues interest at 1.0% per annum plus GBP LIBOR. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material: Change in US Dollar rate Pre-tax profit Year ended 31 December 2017 $’000 Year ended 31 December 2016 $’000 +10% (43,100) (48,250) -10% 43,100 48,250 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 145 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. In line with IAS 39, a discounted value of $22.3 million has been attributed to this option and recorded within other financial assets (see note 20). These forecasts and sensitivity analyses allow management to mitigate any liquidity or covenant compliance risks in a timely manner. Company information EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 160 Notes EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2017 London, England 5th Floor, Cunard House 15 Regent Street London, SW1Y 4LR United Kingdom T +44 (0)20 7925 4900 Aberdeen, Scotland Annan House Palmerston Road Aberdeen, AB11 5QP United Kingdom T +44 (0)1224 975000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Level 12, Menara Maxis Kuala Lumpur City Centre 50088 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia T +60 323 021 888 Dubai, UAE 14th Floor, Office #1403 Arenco Tower Dubai Internet City Dubai, UAE T +971 4 5507100 More information on www.enquest.com EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Forward-looking statements: This report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to EnQuest’s expectations and plans, strategy, management’s objectives, future performance, production, costs, revenues, reserves and other trend information.