However, it is worth noting the overall healthy organic growth and impressive contract wins that contributed to our strong operating cash flows. The German broadcaster MDR, which chose OpenMedia in August 2017 and has been a M&B customer since 1995, bought additional dira! This project win was particularly important because it positions NewsBoard as a bellwether system for other public broadcasters. Beside the technical requirements, SCISYS’ experience with large systems was of great importance to us in choosing them.” - - Dennis Herold, SABC General Manager Radio Broadcast Facilities “ OpenMedia clearly is leading in this space and we’re delighted to be their first major North American partner.” - - Gerry Belec, Dir. Our editorial teams are enthusiastic adopters of dira!, which has significantly improved their workflows and is allowing them to concentrate fully on listeners. This accomplishment is particularly impressive because it was made in the climate of Brexit uncertainty surrounding EU- funded Space programmes. While we could plan our Galileo activities to be carried out by our German subsidiary, which clearly satisfies the requirement of being an EU based company, SCISYS PLC, which is the ultimate holding company, will not automatically satisfy this test upon Brexit taking effect. It has every confidence that all necessary approvals will be forthcoming and thereby eliminate any risk to its continued participation in EU-funded programmes. This mission will operate approximately 200 autonomous communication nanosatellites in carefully selected orbits by 2020, giving equatorial coverage of the Earth to create an affordable global communication network and deliver voice, data and instant messaging to more than 3 billion people who are currently without mobile coverage. A significant number of both highly talented graduates and more experienced staff have recently been welcomed into the fold. It solves the problem of a fast-moving industry by using software to automate, replace hardware and bring efficiency. By contrast, 2016 exceptional items represented charges of £0.4m for non-capitalisable legal and professional fees relating to the Annova acquisition. We have demonstrated this fundamental capability for more than three decades, flexibly responding to the ever-changing market demands in a fast-moving software industry with our well balanced portfolio of solutions, services and products. Our diversity is what gives us a high level of resilience against changing market trends and we also benefit from sharing divisional expertise internally to innovate with customers. We invest in acquisitions to complement our organic growth aspiration; always thoroughly assessing the business benefit and cultural fit. Strong revenues from the growing satellite navigation business were instrumental to this success, despite frequently aired Brexit risks. As stated in previous reports these targets can be impacted by exchange-rate movements that are beyond our control and also continued order intake deferrals. Our sector-relevant expertise spans a wealth of experience, encompassing high-integrity onboard flight software, data systems, ground-control solutions and engineering services. SCISYS Space, based on a substantial list of prospects for 2018 and beyond, plans to grow its business further.  IMAGE: SKY AND SPACE GLOBAL ARD, GERMANY: Annova Systems will develop a portal for ARD- Aktuell based on the ground-breaking, proprietary product OpenMedia Newsboard. This solution will give ARD’s journalists a powerful web-based tool that bolsters their existing installation by providing an extended research capability. We have a strong track record in generating systems that use robust software and are less dependent upon hardware. New work this year includes projects gained from Siemens on software engineering of automatic train controls and signalling systems. We have ongoing work for the RNLI through our flagship MACSYS product, an integrated vessel management system, providing situational awareness and navigational control. SCISYS and Xibis successfully upgraded Imray’s international marine chart plotter, enabling the reproduction of charts on iOS- compatible mobile devices. TRENDS AND OUTLOOK Entering into 2018 our strategic investments in 2016–17 are set to contribute towards continued growth across all three business units. The first is an online managed service for Felling Licence applications which makes use of our Cartosys product. Although the M&B division has moved to a new, larger location in Dortmund this year, there have been no major operational restructures. HOW WE SUCCEEDED ACROSS THE GROUP IN 2017 Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report A closer look at our Media & Broadcast division A closer look at our Media & Broadcast division SCISYS PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 29 Scotty @ BBC: The BBC chose M&B to modernise its multimedia news delivery system with a cloud-hosted service for journalists to securely and quickly deliver multimedia news items to the BBC. This includes knowledge exchange between the different organisational units, project implementation, sharing of expertise and making introductions to respective customers. Other new customers include public broadcaster Czech Radio, who have contracted us to work on their news rundown- management systems. Annova was chosen over the competition for a new planning system based on our latest product, NewsBoard, which is being added to their current installation of OpenMedia. We are delivering a solution using an agile approach for them and this major project has high visibility across the ARD network. COMMERCIAL & DELIVERY RISKS The Group is engaged in a number of large, complex Information and Communication Technology (ICT) projects. The Group’s customers are predominantly blue chip and governmental organisations, so our credit risk is relatively small. Equally important, the Group offers a culture where each individual is encouraged to achieve their full potential through regular reviews and discussions. SCISYS operates comprehensive information management policies and procedures to ensure that the appropriate protections are in place. If the PLC Board approves its continued interest then an offer may be made subject to contract and undertaking detailed due diligence. Other environmental measures also include, promoting cycling to work, car sharing/pooling, video conferencing, recycling and cutting down on our usage of printer paper, etc. We also brought in an external consultant to deliver a Brexit workshop that outlined the latest options for staff. We are national participants in the STEMNet programme (www.stemnet.org.uk), which is a network aimed at creating opportunities for young people and teachers of STEM subjects. Our ambassadors are great role-models who motivate and inspire young people, advising them how they can build a career in the software industry by using examples of real case studies. There is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically for its decisions, relating to strategy, finance, risk, operations and governance. As the Non-Executive Chairman is subject to re-election every three years, rather than annually, we do not comply with paragraph B.7.1. During 2017, Xibis had monthly board meetings in Oadby of the Directors, Neil Morjaria, Ian Newson, Fiona Holder, Steve Brignall and Andy Whitehead. In 2017 the Directors of SCISYS Deutschland GmbH were Klaus Meng (Chair), Sandra Krewerth, Karl-W Pieper and Horst Wulf. Risk of bribery, facilitating tax evasion by others and modern slavery statement 2017 The Group has an anti-bribery policy in place. Executive Directors meet staff formally by providing twice-yearly results presentations at all office locations and for larger groups of off-site employees. We develop long standing relationships with our bankers and keep them regularly updated as to how the business is performing. Salary levels are reviewed on an annual basis by reference to comparable positions in similarly sized AIM-listed companies. Salary levels are reviewed on an annual basis by reference to comparable positions in similar sized AIM-listed companies. The Chairman participated in an annual performance related payment scheme covering a part of his total potential earnings. Salary levels are reviewed on an annual basis by reference to comparable positions in similarly sized AIM-listed companies. During 2017 SCISYS awarded 202,500 options under the CSOP granted to Directors, senior managers and staff at an issue price of 101.50 pence per share. During 2017 SCISYS awarded 137,500 options under the Unapproved scheme granted to Directors, senior managers and staff at an issue price of 101.5 pence per share. From 2018 the Remuneration Committee will have oversight of any employment policy issues, notified to it by local Human Resources centres. Employee engagement The Group engages with its employees regularly through various media: email alerts, bulletins, newsletters, team briefings and twice- yearly all-staff presentations. Since that date, IFRS 3 (2008) applies and all acquisition costs are expensed as incurred unless related to the raising of finance. Revenue from projects billed on a time and materials basis is recognised in line with performance of the services. Other intangible assets The amortisation periods for the intangible fixed assets below are based on their estimated useful lives as follows: Software licences 3 to 5 years Annova order book (not straight-line basis) 11 years Annova acquired software solution 3 years Impairment of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any Principal accounting policies (continued) Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Principal Accounting Policies SCISYS PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 69 Principal accounting policies (continued) indication that an asset may be impaired. • Beta factor: approximate market participant value is determined from statistics quoted by Bloomberg for SCISYS PLC and a sample of comparable competitor companies. • Gearing: approximate market participant value is determined from statistics quoted by Bloomberg for SCISYS PLC and a sample of comparable competitor companies. Contingent consideration payable for the ANNOVA acquisition is linked both to average profitability over a 3-year earn out period and achievement of key commercial milestones. ToMM Apps will be liquidated under German law and the retained earnings distributed to its shareholders by way of dividends. The loan is repayable in equal quarterly instalments over 5 years and bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.9% p.a. Trade receivables Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 Sterling 2,508 4,412 4,054 1,498 Euro 6,589 6,223 3,756 5,417 US Dollars 159 6 211 - 9,256 10,641 8,021 6,915 The aged analysis of trade receivables is: Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Notes (forming part of the financial statements) for the year ended 31 December 2017 SCISYS PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 83 In addition, SCISYS Deutschland entered into a series of relatively low-value forward contracts to swap sterling receipts for euros in 2018 and 2019. The provisions represent future charges on long-term, fixed-price customer contracts where liabilities are uncertain in either, or both, timing and amount. In addition, SCISYS’ mature infrastructure will provide a more stable platform to support ANNOVA’s geographical expansion plans. Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report SCISYS PLC company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 SCISYS PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 93 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2018 and were signed on its behalf by: 2017 2016 Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 Fixed assets Tangible assets 4 4,680 4,804 Investments 5 17,029 17,030 21,709 21,834 Current assets Debtors 6 2,203 3,291 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 7 (3,319) (2,838) Net current (liability)/assets (1,116) 453 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 8 (3,372) (3,778) Net assets 17,221 18,509 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 9 7,329 7,272 Share premium account 268 143 Merger reserve 943 943 Capital redemption reserve 83 83 Profit and loss account 8,598 10,068 Shareholders’ funds 17,221 18,509 Company registered number: 3426416 K M Heidrich, Director C A Cheetham, Director SCISYS PLC (the “Company”) financial statements are prepared on a going-concern basis. The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.