Fractured basements are a global phenomenon which have been produced successfully for extended periods in multiple locations around the world. This involves tying two existing wells back to the Aoka Mizu Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel. Extension to 10 years would increase Reserves by 25 million barrels Hurricane licence equity interest 200 0 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 2,000 mmboe Warwick Lancaster Lincoln Halifax Whirlwind 2P Reserves 2C Contingent Resources Best Case Prospective Resources • Strathmore excluded • Whirlwind resources are those under the oil case (RPS Dec 17 CPR) • 2P Reserves based on six-year case (RPS May 17 CPR) 486 1,235 205 37 604 935 Combined GWA: 1,539 mmboe Combined GLA: 1,758 mmboe Licence locations Greater Lancaster Area Greater Warwick Area Lancaster Strathmore Lincoln Warwick Whirlwind Halifax United Kingdom Orkney Islands Shetland Islands 02 03 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Hurricane Energy plc Annual Report and Group Financial Statements Year Ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 06 Interim Chairman’s Statement 08 Our Business Model 10 Our Strategy 12 Chief Executive Officer’s Review 16 Key Performance Indicators 18 Principal Risks, Going Concern and Long-term Viability Statement 24 Review of Operations 28 Financial Review 3 1 S u s t ai n a bili t y R e p o r t Hurricane has focussed on implementing its strategy in the West of Shetland region of the UKCS. This allows uncertainties associated with the reservoir to be removed whilst commencing a phased development and generating cash flow. Our focus has extended beyond drilling additional exploration and appraisal wells, when funding allows, to transitioning towards organic cash generation. At the time of writing, I am delighted to report that first oil remains on schedule for H1 2019. Fractured basements are a global phenomenon which have been produced successfully for extended periods in multiple locations around the world. In December 2017, we published a further CPR, incorporating the results of our Lincoln and Halifax exploration wells. As we look beyond the EPS, our challenge is to ensure that appraisal and development costs reflect ongoing oil price uncertainty and strive to deliver value throughout the cycle as either sellers or holders of our Rona Ridge assets. Hurricane has shown that, using appropriate contract structures, a sufficiently attractive project can take advantage of these conditions and proceed to development on an independent basis. Initial planning work for future stages of development through infrastructure investment and potentially tying back appraisal wells has commenced – See 2018 KPIs. Performance targets are separate and distinct from VCP Milestones, which represent longer term hurdles in delivering the Group’s strategy. 16 17 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance Overview Hurricane Energy plc Annual Report and Group Financial Statements Year Ended 31 December 2017 Principal Risks, Going Concern and Long-Term Viability Statement Key risk factor Risk detail / change in the period How is it managed How it has changed during the period Substantial capital requirements The Group’s business plan to exploit and commercialise its assets requires significant capital expenditure. Investments have and will only be made if development cases are robust to downside price sensitivity scenarios. If this fails, or is not available on reasonable commercial terms, it may result in delays to field development, production and cash generation. This would have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, prospects, financial condition and operations. Further appraisal work will also be required to test the Company’s exploration model that Halifax and Lancaster are part of a single hydrocarbon accumulation. During 2017 , in parallel with ongoing FEED studies, the Group continued to place orders, carry out surveys and make milestone payments on these pre-sanction items. In another example of innovative contracting, Bluewater is incentivised to reach first oil and deliver stable production through an incentive tariff. These charges were partially offset by a fair value gain on derivative financial instruments related to the Convertible Bond and foreign exchange gains. Upon receipt of FDP approval in September 2017 , for tax purposes, the Group is considered to have commenced trading. A potential Ring Fence Expenditure Supplement claim could also be made which would result in additional trading losses of $65.0 million. Following this reclassification, a further $109.4 million was included in property, plant and equipment relating to the EPS. We provide a clear feedback structure, establish appropriate operating practices and implement training programmes to ensure effective delivery on our policies. Finding workable solutions both for our business, and the oil industry as a whole, is important to us. The HSEM Committee ensures that an effective system of standards, policies, procedures and practices are in place. We aim to create an inclusive culture where employees of any background can be themselves and fulfil their potential. Our focus is on making accountabilities and responsibilities clear so that everyone can contribute positively to the safety culture we are building at Hurricane. Risks are monitored through a hierarchy of control where safety performance is reviewed in accordance with the Incident Reporting Procedure. Safety performance across the business is measured against a range of internal targets which are continually monitored and revised. Hurricane requires that our offshore contractors’ operations (well, pipeline and installation operators) are fully certified under ISO 14001 Environmental Management System or equivalent. Sustainability Report continued Board approval This Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 9 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Dr Robert Trice Chief Executive Officer During the year, we did not have any significant environmental incidents and we were not subject to any fines arising out of our activities. Previously he was Managing Director of consulting at RPS Energy Ltd, a leading upstream technical consultancy and reserve auditor. As our institutional shareholder base increased, the Company’s engagement and consultation with its shareholders have both been strengthened. It is anticipated that full compliance with these Code provisions will be attained later in the 2018 financial year. The committee also appointed Boudicca Proxy Ltd which is a specialist shareholder engagement and corporate governance adviser. However, the Board has always considered its non-executive directors independent in judgement and character by their actions. On 18 December 2017, after his appointment as Interim Chairman, Dr David Jenkins relinquished these options for nil consideration. Any potential or actual conflicted matters are identified and acted upon accordingly, via a conflict of interest policy. Each director must retire at the third AGM following their last appointment or re-appointment in a general meeting. A formal tender process should be considered at least every five years and the committee will keep this under review. Audit and Risk Committee Chairman’s Report continued Name Independence Dr David Jenkins No (will revert to being independent upon appointment of new Chairman) John van der Welle Yes Dr Robert Arnott* Independent on appointment Roy Kelly No * Resigned 8 November 2017. As part of the agreed selection process, Spencer Stuart provided a thorough profile on each candidate and an opportunity for all other Board members to meet with any potential candidates. Following industry practice, Hurricane’s executive directors’ Remuneration Policy is comprised of fixed and variable annual compensation to drive delivery of near-term targets, with an additional overarching long-term incentive plan to maintain a longer-term focus on generating value for shareholders. Element Link to strategy Operation Maximum limit Performance assessment Base Salary Supports recruitment, retention and motivation of key executives. No formal limit on annual increases, though the committee would be unlikely to make significant changes except in cases where an individual’s responsibility or role had changed, or if it became evident that a realignment with market rates was required. Performance Measures are separate and distinct from VCP Milestones which represent longer term hurdles in delivering the Group’s strategy. 50 51 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Hurricane Energy plc Annual Report and Group Financial Statements Year Ended 31 December 2017 Element Link to strategy Operation Maximum limit Performance assessment Long-term share based Incentive Plans – VCP Incentivises management to achieve the Company’s strategy of de-risking and monetising its resource base. On 18 December both Dr David Jenkins and John van der Welle forfeited their awards for nil consideration, in order that they could be deemed independent under the Code. The maximum value to executive directors and employees is therefore zero at current share prices or using any recent average, as required under Companies Act illustrations. The size and scope of Hurricane’s operations at this stage in its development would make any consultation process ineffective. As outlined above, the VCP is structured so that it cannot lead to dilution of greater than 8.4% upon successful vesting. Independence of committee members Name Independence Dr David Jenkins No (will revert to being independent upon appointment of the new Chairman) John van der Welle Yes Dr Robert Arnott* Deemed independent on appointment as Company Chairman Roy Kelly** No * Resigned 8 November 2017. Value of £100 invested at Hurricane IPO Hurricane Energy FTSE AIM Oil & Gas 160 140 60 100 20 120 40 80 0 Feb 14 Apr 14 Jun 14 Aug 14 Oct 14 Dec 14 Feb 15 Apr 15 Jun 15 Aug 15 Oct 15 Dec 15 Feb 16 Apr 16 Jun 16 Aug 16 Oct 16 Dec 16 Feb 17 Apr 17 Jun 17 Aug 17 Oct 17 Dec 17 Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 64 65 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Hurricane Energy plc Annual Report and Group Financial Statements Year Ended 31 December 2017 Company registration Hurricane Energy plc is a public company limited by shares registered in England and Wales with the registered number 05245689. This Directors’ Report and Responsibility Statement was approved by the Board on 9 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Dr Robert Trice Alistair Stobie Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 66 67 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Financials 70 Independent Auditor’s Report 77 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 78 Group Balance Sheet 7 9 G r o u p S t a t e m e n t of Changes in Equity 80 Group Cash Flow Statement 81 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 104 Company Balance Sheet 1 0 5 Co m p a n y S t a t e m e n t of Changes in Equity 106 Company Cash Flow Statement 107 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Our principal financial goals are to manage the existing funds held by the Group to deliver the EPS on schedule and on budget. Key observations We are satisfied that it is appropriate to fully impair the Tempest / Typhoon and Strathmore assets. We highlight however that successful development of these assets is dependent on additional (currently uncommitted) funding being received. Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Hurricane Energy plc Annual Report and Group Financial Statements Year Ended 31 December 2017 72 73 72 73 Convertible bond accounting Key audit matter description In July 2017, the parent company raised $230 million (before expenses) from the successful placement of convertible bonds. Any changes to recognition and measurement will be applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at that time. Any changes to recognition and measurement will be applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at that time. Further quantitative information cannot be provided at this time as the Group is continuing with its detailed assessment. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in respect of temporary differences using a Balance Sheet liability method. Operating loss Year Ended 31 Dec 2017 $’000 Year Ended 31 Dec 2016 1 $’000 Operating loss is stated after charging: Staff costs (note 8) 6,167 5,771 Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 226 248 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 11) 22 54 Impairment / write off of intangible exploration & evaluation assets (note 12) 10,412 – Auditor’s remuneration (see below) 224 108 The following is an analysis of the gross fees paid to the Group’s auditor, Deloitte LLP. A potential Ring Fence Expenditure Supplement claim could also be made for this period which would result in additional trading losses of $65 million. As such the intangible exploration and evaluation assets relating to those licences of $8,441,000 have been fully written off. Those employees or directors who entered the VCP were required to forfeit any PSPs held at that time. This is because the derivatives themselves are not traded on an active market and their fair values are determined by a valuation technique that uses one key input that is not based on observable market data, being share price volatility. However, their fair values are determined by valuation techniques that use observable market data, e.g. foreign exchange rates. Share incentive plan On 24 January 2018, Global Shares Trustee Company Limited (formally MM&K Plan Trustees Limited), trustee of the HMRC approved Hurricane Energy plc SIP, awarded 474,006 Ordinary Shares to participants in the SIP at a price of £0.39 per share. In March 2017 , the Company disposed of all its intangible exploration and evaluation assets to other group companies.