with our augmented, established product portfolio generating a growing level of sales, we have identified key development assets to focus our commercial resources behind, and we are confident that following final product validation and transfer of manufacturing in-house, the newly focused strategy will drive significant shareholder returns. chairman’s statement we have completed a transformative acquisition, delivered 46% growth in dermapure ® sales and expanded the clinical applications of our products to access new healthcare professionals whilst successfully progressing integration activities. integration highlights { growth momentum of cellright portfolio maintained { dermapure ® manufacturing transfer on track { financial control & governance framework implemented { one company customer service and back office established { initial cross-selling opportunities being realised. alongside this, additional sizes of their frozen and freeze dried wound care product matrix iq were released to address larger surgical site procedures. sales in both cellright and biosurgery have had a strong start to the year, including shipments under two significant distributor agreements. integra tion cellright integration into the tissue regenix group { implementation of shared services and back office functions { standardized operational reporting. with ongoing business development in the us, initial costs around a fda approved pre-clinical trial for orthopure™ xt have been incurred. with positive clinical data being reported at 1 year we have developed additional indications to also encompass extra-articular knee reconstruction procedures. with the search for an ideal pericardial valve ongoing, there is huge interest from particularly paediatric cardiac surgeons in this potential business development. this ensures that we do not rely on a single source provider and can ensure to meet the increasing demand for suitable donated tissue. our facility is spit over separate buildings meaning that an incident can be contained within one area and should not affect all business activities. the group operates a strictly controlled quality management system, and has in-house experts to ensure compliance with all regulatory requirements. it is the company’s policy that executive directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of six months’ notice. the value in use calculations, which are made on an annual basis for goodwill, or when there is an indicator of impairment for tangible and other intangible fixed assets, determine whether there is any impairment to the carrying value of assets arising from business combinations. any other share options and employee interests in jointly owned ebt shares which are not exercised within 10 years from the date of grant will expire. notice of annual general meeting continued ticker aim: trx www.tissueregenix.com 68 directors john samuel (chairman) steven couldwell (chief executive officer) jonathan glenn (non-executive director) alan miller (non-executive director) randeep singh grewal (non-executive director) shervanthi homer-vanniasinkam (non-executive director) company secretary paul below company website www.tissueregenix.com company number 05969271 (england & wales) registered office registrar unit 1 & 2 link asset services astley way the registry astley lane industrial estate 34 beckenham road leeds beckenham west yorkshire kent ls26 8xt br3 4tu auditor legal adviser kpmg llp dla piper uk llp 1 sovereign square princes exchange sovereign street princes square leeds leeds ls1 4da ls1 4by nominated adviser and broker jefferies international ltd vintners place 68 upper thames street london ec4v 3bj tissue regenix group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 december 2017 ibc directors and officers financials tissue regenix group plc unit 1 and 2 astley way astley lane industrial estate swillington leeds ls26 8xt www.tissueregenix.com tissue regenix group plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 december 2017