our current generation niox vero ® device is available across major markets, including the us, europe, japan and china. the treatment market represents a major opportunity, with inhaled therapies accounting for estimated revenues of approximately $20 billion in 2017. $2.6bn us sales of respiratory treatments containing long-acting muscarinic antagonists (lamas) reached an estimated $2.6 billion in 2017 . our network currently covers over 35 countries and we are exploring additional opportunities to extend this further. these development programmes leverage regulatory procedures that permit approval based on the demonstration of product equivalence. these development candidates are based on approved molecules, thereby reducing their risk profile, and the company plans to initiate discussions with a number of potential partners. dr francesco granata chairman circassia pharmaceuticals plc annual report and accounts 2017 11 cir_ar17_front_v18.indd 11 25/04/2018 19:19 operational and financial highlights strong niox ® progress – sales increased 18% (12% at cer 1 ) to £27 .3 million (2016 cer: £24.4 million) – direct clinical sales (non-research sales 2 ) increased 26% (20% at cer) compared with 2016 – us clinical revenues grew 34% (27% at cer) vs 2016 – china clinical sales increased 44% (36% at cer) vs 2016 – new nice guidelines issued in november highly supportive for feno testing in asthma diagnosis – n io x v e r o ® product evolution and digital app in development; targeting 2019 launch in europe astrazeneca (az) us commercial partnership progressing well – t r an s f o r m a t i o nal t r an sa c t i o n for copd products tudorza ® and duaklir ® 3 completed april 2017 – tud o r z a ® profit share revenues £19.0 million from transaction completion to year end – tu d o r z a ® prescriptions stabilised; year ended 52% ahead of 2017 declining trend established prior to circassia’s full promotion – tu d o r z a ® ascent study met primary endpoints; compelling data to be filed for inclusion in label – dua k l i r ® amplify phase iii study met primary endpoints; az to submit nda h1 2018 – astrazeneca to increase equity stake in circassia from 14.2% up to a maximum of 19.9% expanding commercial growth platform – us sales force expanded to 200 with approximately 50-strong support team – china commercial expansion; targeting niox ® sales growth and platform for third-party products 2018 investment strategy refocused – investment strategy increases focus on commercial expansion to drive revenue growth – strategic plan to out-license / partner respiratory direct substitute and novel formulation candidates – r&d annualised expenditure to decrease by approximately £5 million – g&a cost containment to deliver annualised savings of approximately £2 million – s&m investment to increase approximately £7 million in 2018 +100% revenues increased 100% to £46.3 million (2016: £23.1 million) circassia pharmaceuticals plc annual report and accounts 2017 12 cir_ar17_front_v18.indd 12 25/04/2018 20:25 £20.9m in-house r&d expenditure 4 reduced 54% to £20.9 million (2016: £45.9 million) £11.0m underlying g&a expenditure 5 reduced 25% to £11.0 million (2016: £14.6 million) £59.5m £59.5 million of cash 7 at 31 december 2017 (30 june 2017: £82.9 million) * the financial highlights section contains key performance indicators (kpis) that management believes better represent the underlying performance of the group, reflecting the functioning of the departments at the time of operation; where relevant these exclude irregular or infrequent items 1 constant exchange rates (cer) for 2016 represent reported 2016 numbers re‐stated using 2017 average exchange rates; management believes constant currency numbers better represent the underlying performance of the group due to subsidiary functional currency fluctuations against sterling 2 direct clinical sales to clinicians, hospitals and distributors; research sales to pharmaceutical companies for use in clinical studies 3 duaklir ® is a registered trademark in europe and other markets; use of the trademark in the us is subject to review and approval by the fda 4 in-house r&d: includes expenditure on underlying and discontinued operations excluding impairments to better reflect management expenditure at the time of operation 5 underlying operations, see consolidated statement of comprehensive income 6 underlying operations restated to show the results of the allergy business in discontinued operations; see note 10 of the consolidated financial statements for further details 7 cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits financial highlights the following table includes key performance indicators (kpis) representing the group’s underlying operations at the time of operation; these include allergy r&d costs and exclude a one-off r&d contribution to az and r&d impairments 2017 kpi* 2016 kpi* 2017 total 2016 total revenue £46.3m £23.1m £46.3m £23.1m r&d expenditure £20.9m 4 £45.9m 4 £97.4m £17.8m g&a expenditure £11.0m 5 £14.6m 6 £10.9m £14.9m s&m expenditure £49.6m 5 £27.0m 6 £49.6m £27.2m group loss £36.9m 5 £35.9m 6 £99.1m £137.4m cash 7 at period end £59.5m at 31/12/17 £82.9m at 30/06/17 £59.5m £117.4m circassia pharmaceuticals plc annual report and accounts 2017 13 cir_ar17_front_v18.indd 13 25/04/2018 19:19 chief executive’s review 2017 was a period of major transformation for circassia, with the company making good progress to becoming a commercially-focused specialty respiratory business. with continuing robust sales growth, a portfolio of exciting products and expanding commercial presence, we are highly positive about the coming year. the company uses a range of external experts to deliver support activities, including manufacturing, contract research and commercialisation in territories beyond circassia’s direct sales presence. elsewhere we have a network of international partners that sell our niox ® products in more than 35 additional countries. by delivering against each of these three objectives, circassia intends to build a highly attractive business. in the uk, our direct field force performed well during its first full year and as a result uk revenues were 134% ahead of 2016. revenues in germany declined somewhat due to local restructuring, which is now delivering results. in april, we established a transformational partnership with astrazeneca for copd products tudorza ® and duaklir ® . in parallel, our market access team extended niox ® coverage to an additional nine million americans and at the beginning of 2018 medicare increased its feno testing reimbursement rate. circassia made significant progress during the past year, continuing its transition into a commercial specialty pharmaceutical business focused on respiratory disease. circassia made significant progress during the past year, continuing its transition into a commercial specialty pharmaceutical business focused on respiratory disease. we intend to continue this distributor support in 2018 with the provision of tailored marketing materials. 1, expanding niox ® market access in the united states, we established new agreements with over 50 major healthcare providers. circassia anticipates receiving approximately $9 million of tax credits relating to these r&d contribution payments. it is indicated for the long-term maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with copd, including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. under our tudorza ® profit share arrangement we have responsibility for the product’s promotion while astrazeneca manages manufacturing, supply, regulatory and pharmacovigilance activities. our 200-strong sales force is now supported by a team of over 50, including marketing, analytics, market access, training and medical affairs experts. less than a year since we began promoting tudorza ® , prescription rates have begun to respond positively. we recently began to roll out a new tudorza ® “tunight + tumorrow” marketing campaign, which includes a range of new sales materials highlighting the benefit of twice-daily dosing, significantly improving lung function with an evening and morning dose. the results demonstrate that alongside background therapy tudorza ® is effective at reducing exacerbation rates in patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors. in the coming weeks, we plan to increase our beijing-based team, which currently manages local distributors, and establish a commercial ‘back office’. later in the year we intend to recruit a modest sales force, which will complement our existing distributor base. this new team will allow us to target top grade hospitals that are not currently niox ® customers. — our combination formulation containing fluticasone propionate and the laba salmeterol xinafoate targets direct substitution of gsk’s seretide ® pmdi. the most advanced of these, a combination lama / laba, incorporates mesh nebulisation technology in-licensed from medical innovation company, philips respiratory drug delivery. this next generation hand-held nebuliser is battery powered, easy-to-clean, bluetooth enabled and features a breath actuation algorithm to improve usability. this strategy is designed to complete our transition into a fully commercially-focused specialty pharmaceutical business, with rapidly growing revenues, strong commercial platform and expanding product portfolio. the strategy has a number of key elements: 1. commercial expansion we plan to continue investing in our commercial platform to drive revenues from our existing portfolio and attract additional third-party products through acquisition, in-licensing and partnering. with a full year’s contribution from our tudorza ® collaboration and rapidly growing niox ® sales we have significant growth potential ‘locked in’. it also includes the flixotide ® pmdi substitute (eu rights) and a partnered particle-engineered version of salmeterol xinafoate which are no longer being pursued. people attracting, motivating and retaining a highly skilled workforce is key to the group’s long-term success. the group does not have formal diversity quotas but recognises that a diverse employee profile is of significant benefit. member male female total %male %female plc board including non-executive directors 7 1 8 88 12 employees in other senior executive positions 3 1 4 75 25 directors of subsidiary companies not included in above 0 0 total senior managers excluding directors 3 1 4 75 25 all other employees 206 182 388 53 47 total 216 184 400 54 46 employee welfare and involvement employees are regularly provided with information about the group, for example through regular ‘open house’ sessions at which the chief executive officer and other members of the management team present on various topics such as strategic and operational progress, and employee-related policies. sunshine act the group is committed to promoting transparency of its relationships with healthcare providers. nonetheless, it still actively seeks to make energy savings in a fashion which is environmentally responsible and cost effective. accordingly, it can only provide a reasonable and not an absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. the group may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement from third party payers such as private health insurers and government health authorities is restricted or not available because for example it proves difficult to build a strong enough economic case based on the burden of illness and population impact. a dedicated team concentrates on selling the product to larger public and private institutions under fixed term contracts. stringent standards are imposed which relate to the quality, safety and efficacy of these products. delays or complications in any of these regulatory applications could adversely affect the group’s business. this product is not yet approved, although clinical studies have been successfully completed and filing for a new drug application is currently anticipated in h1 2018. during 2017 , the group also received the results of a phase iv post- marketing study relating to tudorza ® . the group is currently awaiting results from a clinical trial for one of its respiratory products. there is, however, a risk that the group will not be able to negotiate such licence agreements. a robust pharmacovigilance plan is in place to ensure any safety issues are identified and reported. mitigating activities audits of sub-contractors are routinely conducted according to procedures set out in the group’s quality system. in addition, the group will seek, through business development activity, to identify opportunities which would expand and diversify its portfolio. if these actions are successful then it would have to pay substantial damages and potentially remove its products from the market. data is backed up daily on off-site servers and the group operates from a number of physically separate sites. markets are constantly monitored and an external commentary is provided by investec on a daily basis. prior to co-founding circassia, he was a founding member of the management team that grew zeneus pharma limited into a successful specialty pharmaceutical company and managed its acquisition by cephalon inc. (now part of teva pharmaceutical industries limited). 6 jo le couilliard independent non-executive director jo le couilliard was appointed to the board as an independent non-executive director on 8 february 2018. she was most recently senior vice president, global commercial transformation at gsk and brings significant commercial and international pharmaceutical industry experience to circassia. until november 2017 he was chief executive officer of touchstone innovations plc, having joined as chief investment officer in 2006. from 2003 to 2006, he held roles at the growth equity and venture capital firm scottish equity partners llp , and prior to this spent 16 years at the international venture capital company 3i group plc, latterly as a director in its uk technology group. 8 sharon curran independent non-executive director sharon curran was appointed to the board as an independent non-executive director on 8th february 2018. she was most recently vice president, global customer excellence & specialty at abbvie inc., and brings extensive commercial and specialty pharmaceutical experience to the company. 10 dr heribert staudinger independent non-executive director dr heribert staudinger was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 8th february 2018. he is currently immunology clinical lead at sanofi genzyme, and brings extensive respiratory medicine development expertise to circassia. he gained his medical degree at the university of freiberg, germany and subsequently practised medicine at the university of hamburg teaching hospitals, where he also gained his phd and board certification as a pulmonary physician. 11 lota s zoth independent non-executive director lota zoth joined circassia as an independent non-executive director on 9 february 2015. she is chair of the audit and risk committee and a member of the remuneration committee. lota is an experienced board member, and has significant financial experience gained in a number of global public companies. we are very grateful to charles and tim for their significant contributions over the years. in addition, dr jean-jacques garaud and mr marvin samson have announced their intention not to stand for re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting. each section sets out the main principles relating to leadership; effectiveness; accountability; remuneration; and relations with shareholders. dr jean-jacques garaud and marvin samson have indicated that they do not intend to stand for re-election at the company’s 2018 annual general meeting. of the five non-executive directors, it is anticipated that four will be independent, namely lota zoth, jo le couilliard, sharon curran, and dr heribert staudinger. this division of responsibilities has been set out in writing and approved by the board. their seniority and range of skills ensure that no one individual can dominate this process. in addition, he has served on the board for more than nine years, and so is not considered independent due to length of service. directors are invited, during the annual evaluation procedure, to identify any training which they feel might benefit them. employees are recruited when they have the appropriate skills and experience to perform their intended roles. regular reviews take place to ensure standards are maintained and the company is fully prepared for a regulatory inspection. — there are controls in place which determine how financial information is validated, consolidated and reviewed. circassia pharmaceuticals plc annual report and accounts 2017 47 cir_ar17_back_v17.indd 47 25/04/2018 18:36 corporate governance continued corporate governance report continued — the r&d committee meets on a weekly basis to review performance of the various clinical trials and implement action plans to prevent delays. under the direction of this committee an insider list is maintained recording employees and external parties who may have access to inside information. she was also chief financial officer and senior vice president at medimmune, llc from 2004 to 2007 . the allocation of consideration between both products was based on a relative fair value approach. dr tim corn did not stand for re-election at the 2017 annual general meeting, and his position was taken, from 26 may 2017 , by mr marvin samson. also, on 26 may 2017 dr jean-jacques garaud resigned from the committee and his position was taken up by ms lota zoth. in addition, the company operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors and senior vice presidents to further increase alignment with shareholders. in addition, the contractual arrangements have been reviewed to ensure that these are in-line with current market and best practice. in doing so we have aligned the notice periods with our policy on future service contracts. salaries are periodically benchmarked against a relevant peer group of uk listed companies with similar market capitalisation and operations. if an executive director is based outside the uk additional benefits and assistance with relocation may be provided which reflect local market norms or legislation. there is no formal maximum limit, but increases are generally in line with those of the wider workforce. performance metrics awards are currently subject to a combination of relative total shareholder return (tsr) and clinical progression timelines for executive directors. operation only shares which are fully owned with no outstanding vesting criteria count towards the shareholding guideline. executive directors will be required to retain half of any post-tax awards which vest under long-term incentive plans, until the share ownership guideline has been satisfied. these awards have vested, based on their original terms and are disclosed in the relevant arr as required. these targets are agreed by the board and selected because of their importance in value creation for shareholders. where required to meet business needs, reasonable relocation support including tax equalisation will be provided. pension a company contribution or cash supplement up to the maximum as outlined for current executive directors. remuneration element exit payment policy service contracts entered into before 1 january 2018 termination by notice: six months. redundancy: six months annual salary payable (reduced accordingly if part of the notice period is worked). name position date of joining steven harris chief executive officer 19 may 2006 rod hafner senior vp of r&d 1 march 2007 julien cotta chief financial officer 5 january 2012 the contractual arrangements for each executive director have been reviewed in order to ensure that these are in-line with market and best practice. non-executive directors may also receive limited travel and / or hospitality related benefits in connection with the role. 10 uk tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed maximum limits are exceeded. 100% complete 2b duaklir phase iii study meets co- primary endpoints with acceptable difference in fine particle dose between treatment arms. maintain and manage a global system to ensure the group is fully compliant with all applicable laws. the difference in awards arises because a greater weighting of options was awarded under criterion 1 to more senior employees. none of the directors currently holds or has held their shares in such an arrangement. voting results at 2015 agm for (%) against (%) withheld (votes) to approve the directors’ remuneration policy report 99.57 0.43 1,901,524 a vote withheld is not a vote in law and is therefore not included in the percentages shown above. at the 2018 annual general meeting, jean-jacques garaud and marvin samson will not stand for re-election. the company has only one class of shares which carry no right to fixed income. — we identified 4 components which, in our view, required a full scope audit based on their size or risk. management have applied a value in use method to calculate the cgu’s and individual assets’ recoverable amount. we also obtained management’s sensitivity analysis and performed our own sensitivities reflecting what we believed to be a range of reasonably individually possible alternative outcomes over the forecast cash flows and discount rates, the results of which did not indicate an impairment to goodwill or other intangible assets on a cgu basis. where a business combination had occurred, we then focused on the identification and valuation of intangible assets, including in relation to future royalties payable to astrazeneca, for which a corresponding liability for contingent consideration was recognised on initial recognition and subsequently re-measured. we performed our own sensitivities (reflecting what we believed to be a range of individually reasonably possible alternative outcomes) over the forecast cash flows and discount rates, the results of which did not indicate an impairment. those where a full scope audit was required included circassia inc (incorporated in the usa), determined as individually financially significant because it contributes more than 15% of the group’s underlying loss before tax and circassia ab (incorporated in sweden) due to its size or risk. while some items have been identified as “non-underlying” in the current year, none are considered “exceptional”. these policies have been consistently applied to all the financial years presented, unless otherwise stated. estimates are made in relation to the cash flow forecasts, probability factors and discount rates used for this purpose. management has based the allocation of consideration between both products on a relative fair value approach. if the group is unable to obtain regulatory approval or to commercialise its product candidates, or experiences significant delays in doing so, this could result in an impairment of the related goodwill and intellectual property rights. any acquisition related costs (for example due diligence) must be expensed in the income statement. segmental reporting the group had four business segments during 2017 , allergy, respiratory, niox ® and us az collaboration. amortisation would commence when product candidates underpinned by the intellectual property rights become available for commercial use. until such an asset is fully developed, the costs are capitalised and classified within intangibles assets as ‘software in development’. circassia pharmaceuticals plc annual report and accounts 2017 99 cir_ar17_back_v17.indd 99 25/04/2018 18:36 notes to the financial statements continued investments investments in subsidiary companies are recognised and carried at cost less any identified impairment losses at the end of each reporting period. accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. the contingent consideration is recognised as a liability, an asset or equity depending on its terms. employee benefit costs the group makes contributions to defined contribution personal pension schemes for its directors and employees. other employee benefits the expected cost of compensated short-term absence (e.g. holidays) is recognised when employees render services that increase their entitlement. in principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. foreign exchange risk the majority of operating costs are denominated in sterling, united states dollars, euro or swedish krona. the directors do not consider that there is presently a material cash flow or liquidity risk. an impairment charge of £37 .0 million in respiratory segment relates to three ipr&d intangible assets, see note 16 for further detail. an r&d tax credit of £10.2 million related to this expenditure is included in the taxation line for non-underlying items. a reduction in the rate of uk corporation tax to 17% from 1 april 2020 has been substantively enacted. 2017 – 11.5% 2016 – n/a% in each case the valuations of respiratory, niox ® and astrazeneca collaboration indicate sufficient headroom such that a change to key assumptions that are reasonably possible is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill. amortisation has been calculated on a straight line basis over this period from the date of acquisition. a remaining useful life of 20 years was determined at acquisition and amortisation will commence when the products underpinned by this technology become available for commercial use. amortisation has been calculated on a straight line basis over this period from the date of acquisition. on 3 march 2017 , prosonix limited fully repaid the intercompany loan due to circassia pharmaceuticals plc of £10,906,586.98. this transfer was accounted for at a book value of £42.1 million on 1 september 2017 , with no gain or loss in either entity. summarised financial information 2017 £m 2016 £m opening net assets 1 january 1.8 0.4 (loss) / profit for the year (0.4) 1.2 dividends paid (0.4) – other comprehensive income – 0.2 closing net assets 1.0 1.8 interest in joint venture @ 50% 0.5 0.9 carrying value 0.5 0.9 19. inventories 2017 £m 2016 £m finished goods 5.0 4.6 inventories recognised as an expense during the year ended 31 december 2017 amounted to £8.5 million (2016: £7 .1 million). these were recognised as an expense during the year and included in ‘cost of sales’. additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to financial and capital risk management (note 2). in accordance with ias 39 ‘financial instruments recognition and measurement’ the group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. (i) options granted under the psp scheme have a fixed exercise price and are subject to additional vesting performance conditions. these shares are subject to certain restrictions on transfer and forfeiture, as set out in the restricted share agreement. company share option reserve £m total other reserves £m at 1 january 2016 3.7 3.7 employee share option scheme 2.4 2.4 at 31 december 2016 6.1 6.1 employee share option scheme 2.5 2.5 at 31 december 2017 8.6 8.6 circassia pharmaceuticals plc annual report and accounts 2017 122 cir_ar17_back_v17.indd 122 25/04/2018 18:36 30. cash used in operations reconciliation of (loss)/profit before tax to net cash used in operations group company 2017 £m 2016 £m 2017 £m 2016 £m (loss) / profit from continuing operations before tax (113.6) (38.8) 1.5 2.4 loss from discontinued operation before tax (6.5) (106.1) – – (loss) / profit before tax (120.1) (144.9) 1.5 2.4 adjustment for: interest income (0.4) (0.9) (0.3) (0.9) interest expense 2.8 0.1 1.5 0.1 depreciation 0.8 0.7 – – amortisation 4.1 4.6 – – impairment 37.0 74.8 – 1.7 share of joint venture profit 0.2 (0.6) – – fair value gain on contingent royalty consideration (3.2) – – – share based payment charge 2.5 2.4 – – foreign exchange on non-operating cash flows (8.5) (7.8) (3.5) – changes in working capital: (increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables (11.6) (1.4) 1.2 (1.6) increase in inventories – (1.2) – – increase in trade and other payables 30.0 5.8 – 0.2 net cash (used in) / generated from operations (66.4) (68.4) 0.4 1.9 31. contingent liabilities there were no contingent liabilities at 31 december 2017 or at 31 december 2016. during the year the group received a notification about an arbitration claim raised for up to $4 million for the non-performance of certain obligations of the contract against one of the subsidiary companies. the future royalty payments to astrazeneca on duaklir ® are recognised as an additional intangible asset and contingent consideration liability. the commission fees receivable are based on tudorza ® product in-market sales and promotion activities performed by circassia. addresses for correspondence head office circassia pharmaceuticals plc northbrook house robert robinson avenue the oxford science park oxford ox4 4ga united kingdom tel: +44 (0)1865 405560 fax: +44 (0)7092 987560 general enquiries: info@circassia.com investors: ir@circassia.com website: www.circassia.com registered office the magdalen centre robert robinson avenue oxford science park oxfordshire england ox4 4ga registrars equiniti limited aspect house spencer road lancing west sussex bn99 6da united kingdom shareholder support: 0371 384 2030 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras. investors or other recipients are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements contained herein.