02 volga gas plc annual report and accounts 2017 russia moscow ukraine belarus kazakhstan black sea 3 2 4 1 russia moscow ukraine belarus kazakhstan black sea 1 karpenskiy 2 vostochny makaroyskoye 3 dobrinskoye 4 urozhainoye-2 volga at a glance our assets are located in an established oil and gas province. 2018 objectives — seek to optimise extraction of oil from existing wells, including the new horizontal well. within these constraints, the board would consider distributing up to 75% of its free cash flow as dividends. unfortunately, volga gas has recently experienced higher formation water content at certain production wells at vostochny makarovskoye (“vm”) and so the board thought it appropriate to commission an updated independent reserves report and prudent to adopt its findings in full. during 2016 and early 2017 , after extensive investigations and pilot tests, management concluded that a switch to redox-based sweetening would be most advantageous – not only for reduced cost but also for the elimination of waste material that required disposal. average unit production costs on the gas condensate fields increased moderately to us5.39 per boe in 2017 (2016: us5.33). this issue has been dealt with and since december 2017 all of the processed gas is available for sale. having recently completed this, management expects improvements in efficiency, reduced operational downtime and higher effective operating capacity. lpgs, primarily comprising propane and butane, are currently either included in the sales gas stream or flared. between january and march 2018, well 101 has been producing at an average rate of approximately 300 bopd. production-based taxes were us10.9 million (2016: us10.3 million) reflecting the impact of higher oil prices and ruble exchange rates on mineral extraction tax (“met”) rates as well as the impact of further formula changes that came into effect on 1 january 2017. this was partly offset by lower production volumes. gas sales have generally been conducted as expected, subject to occasional constraints during pipeline maintenance operations. revenues are predominantly received in rur, so the operating profitability is not materially exposed to moderate short-term exchange rate movements. the group’s operations and financial management have not been impacted directly by any sanctions to date. further short-term debt facilities may be arranged to provide financial headroom for future development activities. the group has established enhanced protection of its information technology infrastructure, operational systems and procedures against fraudulent activities. at ebrd he was responsible for investments in the energy sector of central and eastern europe. appointed to the board: 29 september 2006 committee membership: n/a mr koshcheev currently acts as president of joint stock company “npo pog”. at ebrd he was responsible for investments in the energy sector of central and eastern europe. appointed to the board: 29 september 2006 committee membership: n/a mr koshcheev currently acts as president of joint stock company “npo pog”. the board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval, including: — strategic and policy considerations. 21 volga gas plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements c or p or a t e governance strategic report substantial shareholders on 12 april 2018, the following parties had notifiable interests of 3% or greater in the nominal value of the company’s issued 1p ordinary shares: number of shares percentage baring vostok nominees ltd 1 39,620,000 48.90 mr nicholas mathys 10,610,000 14.02 dehus dolmen nominees ltd 2 7,906,889 9.76 baring vostok investments pcc limited 3 4,860,460 5.93 bnp paribas investment partners s.a. 3,336,860 4.12 blackrock investment management (uk) limited 3,094,791 3.82 jp morgan asset management (uk) limited 2,761,720 3.41 1 baring vostok nominees ltd is a nominee vehicle which holds the interests of the limited partnerships which comprise baring vostok private equity fund iii. employee communication the group is committed to effective communications, which it maintains through regular information releases and staff briefings. it is the group’s policy to fund its capital investments primarily from retained cash and cash generated from operations, although modest levels of debt may continue to be utilised when the board considers it appropriate. the company discloses certain information relating to directors’ remuneration in this report, which is not audited. the remuneration committee comprises ronald freeman (chairman), stephen ogden and aleksey kalinin, who are all non-executive directors. these engagements are for two years and can be terminated upon one month’s notice by either party. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information. 27 volga gas plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report c or p or at e governance financial statements 6 we have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception under the companies act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: — adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or — the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or — certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or — we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. these group consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 12 april 2018. if it is determined that a commercial discovery has not been achieved, these costs are charged to expense after the conclusion of appraisal activities. a corresponding item of property, plant and equipment is also created at an amount equal to the provision. rating of financial institution (fitch) 31 december 2017 us 000 31 december 2016 us 000 barclays bank a 762 3,627 zao raiffeisenbank bbb- 7,850 15,840 unicreditbank bbb- – 214 other 5 37 total bank balance 8,617 19,718 42 volga gas plc annual report and accounts 2017 3. financial risk management continued (c) liquidity risk cash flow forecasting is performed by group finance. the group believes it has sufficient liquidity headroom to fund its currently planned exploration and development activities. this loan, which has a three-year amortising term, benefits from an interest rate subsidy provided by the regional government. further short-term debt facilities may be arranged to provide financial headroom for future development activities. the group has no financial assets and liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value. based on commercial studies conducted during 2016 and 2017, lpg is expected to achieve a premium per tonne over condensate whereas the models assume price parity. — production profiles based on remaining reserves in the proved category and approved field development plans. — cost assumptions are based on current experience and expectations and are broadly in line with unit costs experienced in the year ended 31 december 2017 , including an annual estimated cost saving of us4.0 million from the successful implementation of redox-based gas sweetening. such revisions to reserves can be significant and are not predictable with any degree of certainty. management considers these revised estimates to be reasonable and is adopting them as the group’s reserves. customer advances are prepayments for oil and condensate sales, normally one month in advance of delivery. subsequently, pre-caspian gas company sold an unimproved plot of land to zao gazservice at cost basis. on 10 april 2017 , woodhurst transferred loan assets and investments to its shareholder, volga gas plc, by way of a share premium reduction. the baring vostok private equity funds exercise their control through a number of nominee holding companies. 10. any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided they do not do so in relation to the same shares. bbl the standard barrel of crude oil or other petroleum product is 42 us gallons (approximately 159 litres). prospective resources those quantities of hydrocarbons which are estimated, on a given date, to be potentially recoverable from undiscovered accumulations.