We are excited about the opportunities the Seachill acquisition will bring to Hilton and see considerable potential to build the business alongside our existing meat offering.” Robert Watson OBE Chief Executive Initial investment €22m Investment in plant and equipment c. €6m Investment in plant and equipment NZ $54m Hilton to form Joint Venture with Portugal’s leading food retailer Hilton have signed a 50/50 Joint Venture agreement with Sonae Modelo Continente, Portugal’s leading food retailer, for the supply of a wide range of packaged beef, lamb, veal and pork products to Sonae stores in Portugal. This, together with the benefit of a new bank refinancing, means Hilton is well positioned for further growth. There was strong pre-exceptional operating profit growth of nearly 12% including the benefits of the Seachill acquisition and favourable exchange rate movements (over 2% up after exceptionals) which was achieved despite considerable investment in people and infrastructure to support growth. Annual General Meeting This year’s AGM will be held at the Old Bridge Hotel, 1 High Street, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire PE29 3TQ on 23 May 2018 at noon and my colleagues and I very much look forward to seeing those of you who are able to attend. These businesses operate under the terms of five to ten year long term supply agreements with our retailer partners, either on a cost plus, packing rate or volume based reward basis. In Australia and Portugal, together with our retailer partners, facilities are operated under joint venture companies who receive volume related management fees. 12 Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Chief Executive’s summary continued At the beginning of the year we signed a joint venture agreement with Sonae to manage their existing meat processing and packing facility in Santarem, Portugal. Our facility in Poland will expand following agreement with Tesco to supply fresh foods into Central Europe including sandwiches, pizzas, ready meals and soups. We recognise that people from different backgrounds, countries and experiences can bring benefits to our business. We consider this devolved structure to be a critical success factor, achieving close working relationships with our customers, who benefit from personal, dedicated, flexible and rapid local support. Past and future trends Over recent decades as major retail chains have progressively gained a greater share of the grocery markets in most countries, they have increasingly turned to large scale, centralised packing solutions capable of producing private label packed food products more safely and cost effectively. Basic earnings per share were 1.5% lower but 11.0% higher before exceptional items (5.9% on a constant currency basis). Additional details of volume growth by business segment are set out in the Chief Executive’s summary. The Group sells high quality basic food products, for which there will always be continuing demand, to successful blue chip multiple retailers in developed countries. Hilton has not to date been materially adversely affected by the lengthy recessionary environments seen in some countries, but will keep any future identified country specific risks under continuing review. The Board’s policy is to have an interest rate cap on a proportion of this borrowing. Hilton’s pricing is based predominately either on cost plus agreements or agreed packing rates with its customers. Liquidity risk This has for many businesses represented an area of concern over recent years, given the continuing difficult and uncertain economic environment in some countries. Forward looking statements This Strategic report contains forward looking statements that are inevitably subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, economic, political and business developments which may occur from time to time across the countries in which the Group operates. It must be recognised that systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than completely eliminate any identified risks. The Group takes a proactive approach to risk management with well-developed structures and a range of processes for identifying, assessing, prioritising and mitigating its key risks, as the delivery of our strategy depends on our ability to make sound risk informed decisions. Its potential impact No business is immune to difficult economic climates and the consequent pressure on levels of consumer spending, such as those seen over recent years across Europe. Control systems embedded in project management enable the risks of growth to be appropriately highlighted and managed. Risk mitigation measures and strategies adopted The Group maintains a flexible global food supply base, which is progressively widening as it expands and is continuously audited to ensure standards are maintained, so as to have in place a wide range of options should supply disruptions occur. Description of risk The Group’s IT systems could be subject to cyber attacks including fraudulent external email activity. Retail packing at Hilton The key factors in ensuring that our retail partners receive products that consistently achieve agreed shelf lives and meet customer expectations are top quality ingredients from our suppliers, temperature control and high class standards of hygiene. Hilton maintains annual third party accreditation through FSSC (Food Safety System Certification) using ISO 22000 and ISO/TS 22002-1 or the latest BRC Global Standard for Food Safety and additionally our retail customers make frequent visits to our sites, some of which are unannounced. Auditing as a means of challenging standards is now expected by consumers together with well established procedures throughout the food chain. Where possible wild catch species are independently certified to the Marine Stewardship Council’s standard for a well- managed and sustainable fishery. The ambience of our culinary innovation centres has been designed to create an open and stimulating environment in which creativity can flourish. We have established partnerships with key suppliers whose core capability is the development of innovative ingredients. Finally we are continuously setting the industry standard for lighter product trays which therefore require less plastic. Although Hilton’s products are perishable having limited shelf life we continuously strive, working with our retail partners to ensure that waste is minimised and products are available for purchase and consumption for as long as possible before the end of their shelf life. This Champions 12.3 initiative is dedicated to accelerating progress towards achieving the UN Sustainable Development Target 12.3 by 2030. The Group requires all its subsidiaries to achieve high health and safety standards within their individual operations. We have been successful in recruiting senior women into office based professional roles as part of a recruitment process to ensure the best-fit hire. These terms of reference are reviewed on a regular basis with any revisions proposed to the Board for its approval. In addition the Group’s website containing published information and press releases can be found at www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com. A review of whistle-blowing showed that no concerns had been raised about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters. Their lead partner is rotated every five years to ensure continued objectivity and independence with the next rotation due in 2019. Long Term Incentive Plan The LTIP award granted in 2015 was subject to performance against stretching EPS targets. Pay levels throughout the organisation are also taken into account in order to ensure adequate provision for timely succession. To provide a way of building up a meaningful shareholding in the Company and providing alignment with shareholders’ interests Under its Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Hilton makes annual awards of conditional shares or nil cost options to selected senior executives. Awards are subject to claw-back for three years following vesting in circumstances of material misstatement, error or misconduct. A base fee is augmented for Committee Chairmanship or membership to take into account the additional time commitment and responsibilities associated with those committees. Performance metrics may include a measure of profitability such as EPS and any other metric which aligns the incentive with long term returns to shareholders. If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules. LTIP awards will generally lapse on cessation although they may be capable of vesting in certain good leaver situations. In addition, we engage actively with our largest shareholders and consider the range of views expressed. Employees have not previously been actively consulted on Director remuneration policies but this may be considered in future where appropriate. Additional payments in connection with any statutory entitlements (e.g. in relation to redundancy) may be made as required None Change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change of control External appointments External appointments can be held and earnings retained from such appointments with the Company’s permission N/A Inspection Executive Director service agreements and Non-Executive Director appointment letters are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office. Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual report on remuneration as they arise. Attendance at meetings of the Remuneration Committee Number attended Percentage attended Christine Cross 3 100% Colin Smith 3 100% John Worby 3 100% External advisors The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street (part of Aon plc) to provide advice on remuneration matters and are satisfied that such advice is objective and independent. The Directors’ remuneration policy is subject to a binding resolution every three years or sooner where any changes are made. The financial element bonus was based on profit before tax performance against a sliding scale of targets. Value at year end share price of £8.64 £’000 2015-17 EPS % annual growth 6% 18% 14.0% Robert Watson 86,359 60,261 521 Vesting % 10% 100% 69.8% Philip Heffer 69,088 48,210 417 Nigel Majewski 69,088 48,210 417 For 2016 there were incentive awards options under the Long Term Incentive Plan due to vest during 2017 subject to performance conditions covering the three years 2014-2016. Payments made in 2017 since his departure from the Board comprised salary (including holiday allowance) £124,000 (2016 £244,000), termination payment £166,000 (2016 £nil), benefits £8,000 (2016 £15,000), and pension £34,000 (2016 £68,000). – All eight trading subsidiaries, together with four intermediary holding companies require local statutory audits and were in scope for group reporting. Under IFRS 3 “Business Combinations”, a fair value exercise needs to be undertaken on the acquired assets and liabilities. The assessment of those fair values for intangible assets and property are very sensitive to changes in assumptions. We were supported by our specialist valuations department in respect of the intangibles fair value adjustment. Revenue may be increased and/or decreased by reference to a range of pre-agreed and pre-defined performance measures. These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives of three to seven years. 71 Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables represent amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. The Directors consider that there is a single level of fair value measurement hierarchy for disclosure purposes. On this basis the criteria in IFRIC 4 for determining whether these agreements contain a lease are not met. The Group has four principal customers (comprising groups of entities known to be under common control), Tesco, Ahold, Coop Danmark and ICA Gruppen. The fair value of properties acquired was established from a review carried out by external qualified surveyors. The companies noted below are all deemed to be related parties by way of common Directors. 89 Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Registered office 2-8 The Interchange Latham Road Huntingdon Cambridgeshire PE29 6YE Advisors Corporate brokers Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited One New Change London EC4M 9AF Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Legal advisor Taylor Wessing LLP 5 New Street Square London EC4A 3TW Independent auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Waterfront Plaza 8 Laganbank Road Belfast BT1 3LR Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Financial Public Relations Citigate Dewe Rogerson Limited 3 London Wall Buildings London EC2M 5SY Bankers Ulster Bank Limited Donegall Square East Belfast BT1 5UB Barclays Bank plc Station Road Histon, Cambridge CB24 9DE HSBC Bank plc Avebury Boulevard Milton Keynes MK9 2GA 90 Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2017 Financial statements Registered office and advisors Designed and produced by: Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com Hilton Food Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2017 Hilton Food Group plc 2-8 The Interchange Latham Road Huntingdon Cambridgeshire PE29 6YE www.hiltonfoodgroupplc.com