unique in the b2b igaming landscape, this single enterprise software system is capable of providing these three relevant gaming business models to major casino operators world-wide. by year end 2017 gan operated seven instances of gamestack™ deployed inside data centres located in nevada, new jersey, pennsylvania, maryland, oklahoma, alderney and italy. content partners in addition to securing material partnerships in the us casino landscape, gan has assembled a wide range of relationships with collaborating casino equipment manufacturers seeking to bring their machine-based slot games online and distribute them across the us and into selected regulated markets internationally. by way of reminder, in 2013 the first three us states regulated intra-state real money internet gaming permitted within their state’s borders: nevada (pop. seamus mcgill chairman 28 march 2018 financial statements | governance | strategic report gan plc annual report and accounts 2017 9 chief executive officer’s review focused on growing recurring revenues dear shareholders overview gan is successfully established as a leading provider of enterprise-level internet gaming technology solutions to major us casino operators securing significant us market share. this positions gan to capture significant market share in any incremental us intra-state markets which may regulate internet gaming over time, including pennsylvania, new york and michigan. aligned with the significant growth experienced in new jersey’s real money internet gaming market the group increased its focus on real money internet gaming product development, enhancements and optimisations while continuing to roll out additional new clients and product features for simulated gaming™. analytics form a critical support for marketers in identifying high-value customers and maximising lifetime values and these capabilities have greatly enhanced the analytics tools already available within isight back office™ as well as the efficiency of marketers using these tools daily to drive their respective businesses. with innovative tools for b2b casino operations, gan has invested in growing our global managed services team to support operators as they move online. adequacy of funding liquidity the group has historically been loss making with negative cash flows and this trend continued in to 2017, albeit on an improved basis. the group may be adversely affected by activities such as system intrusions, denial of service attacks, virus spreading and phishing. our system also actively monitors all skill games to ensure no user can gain an unfair advantage by using bots or automated gameplay systems. over time, his role at gan expanded to include licensing, risk management, compliance auditing and anti-money laundering reporting functions. value in use is calculated using estimated cash flow projections from financial budgets, discounted by selecting an appropriate rate for each cash-generating unit. this development also represents a separate and distinct performance obligation to any ongoing contractual obligations as referenced in note 3.8. taxation deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.