the mining licence for sekisovskoye is valid until 18 july 2020 with an automatic pre-emptive contractual right to extend after this period. ▲ the processing plant was overhauled involving a number of replacement parts/equipment, to ensure efficient working at higher volume levels.  ore bodies have continued to be prepared for production however the lack of equipment has been a hindrance in this regard. geologically, we see potential for this area to contain multiple mineralised zones that could potentially host future mines. development exploration growth and evaluation mining altyn plc annual report 2017 our strategy and business model develop continue to develop our high grade underground mine at sekisovskoye grow production and asset base growth via the highly prospective karasuyskoye ore fields progress continue to grow 6 7 strategic report governance financial statements altyn plc annual report 2017 key performance indicators (kpis) the gold poured increased to 16,717oz this is a significant increase from last year. however, without further external funding to complete the underground mine, production would proceed at a much slower pace than that currently planned. all employees, no matter whether they are part-time, full-time, or temporary, will be treated fairly and with respect. when selecting candidates for employment, promotion, training, or any other benefit, it will be on the basis of their aptitude and ability. environment during 2017 each of the company’s facilities was environmentally monitored on a quarterly basis by accredited outsourced companies. health and safety altyn is pleased to report that during 2017, there were no accidents at the sekisovskoye mine. the remaining component of the group, hambledon mining company limited, was considered non-significant and we completed analytical procedures for this intermediate holding company on an entity only basis to confirm there are no significant risks of material misstatements within this entity. per annum mining properties and leases unit of production based on the proven reserves assets under construction are not depreciated. 15 subsidiaries percentage country of registration name held and operation directly held hambledon mining company limited 100 british virgin islands too gmk altyn mm 100 kazakhstan indirectly held dtoo gornorudnoe predpriatie baurgold 100 kazakhstan the principal activity of all companies relates to gold mining and production with the exception of hambledon mining company limited which is an investment holding company and is currently dormant, its registered address is palm grove house, p o box 438,road town, tortola, british virgin islands. the bonds carry a coupon of 10% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on 29 july and 28 february each year. this fund will be used to pay for the costs of restoration as and when they become due. this may take the form of raising equity, debt finance, equipment supplier credit or a combination thereof. there were no significant balances at 31 december 2017 and 2016 in respect of which suppliers had defaulted on their obligations. it has been agreed that the company will use its best endeavors to have this completed once all necessary permits are obtained. 28 subsequent events on the 17 january 2018 african resources limited acquired 117,730,632 shares at a consideration price of 3p per share. normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of crest proxy instructions. probable reserve the economically mineable part of an indicated, and in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource.