Our portfolio, which is currently valued at £1.1bn, comprises holdings in over 150 companies covering a broad range of commercial innovations across the life sciences and technology. By creating a stronger, better-resourced company, we can help more scientists develop commercial businesses, and help prevent the flight of commercially viable enterprises that so often has to leave the UK and/ or seek takeover before they have achieved what they set out to do. READ ABOUT OUR BUSINESS MODEL ON PAGES 14 TO 15 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 2 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Integration is often a challenge with acquisitions. IP Group has access to commercialisable intellectual property from universities whose academic staff have published 16.8% of the world’s Top Research. In addition, our portfolio companies continue to attract significant external funding, raising approximately £315m of new capital this year. IP Group is a leading intellectual property commercialisation company which focuses on evolving great ideas, mainly from its partner universities, into world-changing businesses. Secondly, the Group competes for capital to develop these great ideas into viable businesses against other investment opportunities. IP Group has access to intellectual property from universities whose academic staff have published 16.8% of the world’s Top Research. When approaching new opportunities, potential funders, including the Group, will often act in a collaborative manner through syndication of investment. IP Group’s approach to building businesses is one of the ways in which it differentiates itself from more traditional venture funds. Working with technology transfer teams and academics, we assess initial ‘disclosures’ for their potential commercial viability alongside possible exploitation pathways. As the company shows signs of traction, an investment case is made for seed funding to accelerate growth. SECTOR EXPERTISE SECTOR EXPERTISE START-UP PHASE SCALE-UP PHASE IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 14 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine We systematically help create, build and support outstanding intellectual property-based companies in order to provide attractive returns for all our stakeholders. ALAN AUBREY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2017 was an important year for IP Group, which has seen a period of intense corporate activity including the transaction with Touchstone Innovations plc. Four of our other key technology assets all completed substantial fundraisings in 2017, each involving high- quality new institutional shareholders. The North American business has established a portfolio that continues to attract strong US investor interest from both financial and strategic investors. Another company from the Touchstone stable, Autifony Therapeutics Ltd also signed a €627.5m collaboration agreement in December with Boehringer Ingelheim about certain aspects of its voltage gated potassium channel modulator platform. There was also significant technical progress at OxSyBio Limited while Oxford based Genomics plc announced that it had entered into a strategically important collaborative deal with Biogen, Inc., the U.S.-based biotech, to work on multiple sclerosis (MS). February saw Actual Experience plc announce that it had raised £17.5m before expenses to support channel partners deploying the company’s technology into a global enterprise customer base. IP Group participated in the round alongside new investors including Ultrahaptics’ distribution partner Cornes and Dolby Family Ventures. Circassia’s NIOX VERO® range is used to assist asthma diagnosis and management and is based on the discovery that patients with Th2 or type 2 driven airway inflammation, the major underlying cause of asthma, generally have higher than normal levels of nitric oxide in their exhaled breath. Autifony is backed by Touchstone Innovations, SV Life Sciences, Pfizer Venture Investments, International Biotechnology Trust PLC and UCL Business. In December 2017 the company signed a EUR627.5m agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim about certain aspects of Autifony’s voltage gated potassium channel modulator platform. The company presented two posters with new research and preclinical data from its USP30 inhibitor Parkinson’s disease programmes at Neuroscience 2017. A detailed analysis of fair value gains and losses is provided in the Portfolio review on pages 23 to 39. In several cases, these values differed from those within Touchstone’s audited financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2017, which valued their investment portfolio at £461.1m. It remains the Group’s policy to place cash that is surplus to near-term working capital requirements on short-term and overnight deposits with financial institutions that meet the Group’s treasury policy criteria or in low-risk treasury funds rated “A” or above. Dividends and gains arising to Imperial Innovations Sárl through its interest in Touchstone Innovations Businesses LLP should be exempt from tax under Luxembourg law provided the conditions for the participation exemption are met for each investment or each investment can be attributed to a UK permanent establishment. However, the Group’s risk management programme can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that principal risks are managed to an acceptable level. Priorities for 2018 include amending our risk management framework to reflect new team structure post the integration of Touchstone Innovations plc. While Parkwalk Advisors operates independently they have been and continue to be an important co-investor of the Group supporting shared portfolio companies. While Parkwalk Advisors operates independently they have been and continue to be an important co-investor of the Group supporting shared portfolio companies. y This could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Group’s long-term business, results of operations, performance and prospects. y Members of the Group’s senior team work closely with partner institutions to ensure that each commercial relationship is mutually beneficial and productive. y This could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Group’s long-term business, results of operations, performance and prospects. y Members of the Group’s senior team work closely with partner institutions to ensure that each commercial relationship is mutually beneficial and productive. y Changes could result in universities and researchers no longer being able to own, exploit or protect intellectual property on attractive terms. y Changes could result in universities and researchers no longer being able to own, exploit or protect intellectual property on attractive terms. Further, our direct involvement in these companies allows greater scope to engage with their management teams and offer guidance. As such, we believe in equal opportunity for all people when it comes to recruitment, selection and career development. Scope 2 emissions have also increased, although there has been a reduction in district heating due to the Sheffield office move. Each Committee will continue to review its own terms of reference at least annually and propose any updates where necessary. Professor Begg was subsequently appointed as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 31 December 2017, succeeding Mr Liversidge upon his retirement. Accordingly, Professor Begg will submit himself for election by shareholders at the Group’s Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 June 2018. When Board vacancies arise, the Group’s Nomination Committee will require the Group’s in-house executive search function and/or external search consultants (as appropriate) to identify and present qualified people of a range of diverse backgrounds, gender, nationality and ethnicity to be considered for appointment. In all cases, the Non-executive Directors must ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive time commitments or cause a conflict of interest. There is also an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense. However, it recognises that such systems can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Political expenditure Although it is the Board’s policy not to incur political expenditure or otherwise make cash contributions to political parties, and it has no intention of changing that policy, the CA 2006 is very broadly drafted in this area and the Board has raised a concern that it may include activities such as funding conferences or supporting certain bodies involved in policy review and law reform. We provide transparent disclosure of our annual bonus performance targets on both a retrospective and, where appropriate, prospective basis. I know that Professor Gladden shares this view and would herself welcome discussion on the Group’s remuneration. Annual salary increases for executive directors will not normally exceed the average increase awarded to other UK- based employees. The Group also offers certain salary sacrifice schemes including childcare vouchers, purchase of additional holiday and Ride to Work. However, for 2018 the Committee is introducing three further components that it considers are ‘leading indicators’ of underlying business performance. 17.0 1,326.2 706.5 142.2 178.8 9.5 Total employee costs (£m) +79% Hard NAV (£m) +114% 2016 2017 Share price (p) -20% 92 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our Governance Committee Reports Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited information) The Group’s Remuneration Policy contains minimum shareholding requirements for each of its Executive Directors. Under the North East Technology Fund (“NETF”) scheme, payments to participants are made when all limited partners have been repaid their contributions together with a hurdle rate of 3.5% compound interest. Any outside appointments (i.e. excluding those companies in which the Group is a shareholder) held by executive directors are set out on page 97. This comprises: y A risk assessment performed by operational management and the Board to identify key areas for assurance. Unquoted investments are measured at fair value which is estimated by the directors based on methods such as prices of recent investment and discounted cash flows. All assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Touchstone Innovations plc are measured at acquisition-date fair value. The directors consider that these amounts are in substance and form “normal market rate” compensation for its role as investment manager. Top T echnology Ventures Limited, Parkwalk Advisors Ltd and Touchstone Investment Management Limited, are Group subsidiaries which are subject to external capital requirements imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and as such must ensure that it has sufficient capital to satisfy these requirements. The maximum exposure to credit risk for debt investments, receivables and other financial assets is represented by their carrying amount. Dividends and gains arising to Imperial Innovations Sárl through its interest in Touchstone Innovations Businesses LLP should be exempt from tax under Luxembourg law provided the conditions for the participation exemption are met for each investment or each investment can be attributed to a UK permanent establishment. In line with the Group’s policies, these have previously been recognised as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss. Alternative Performance Measures (“APM”) continued 164 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine 28. The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements. 171 Stock Code: IPO www.ipgroupplc.com Our Financials Company statements 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Notes to the company financial statements CONTINUED All companies above have their registered offices at The Walbrook Building, 25 Walbrook, London, EC4N 8AF unless separately listed below: IP Group Inc: 1105 North Market Street, Suite 1800, Wilmington, DE 19801, USA. Details of subsidiary undertakings continued 172 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine 10. Details of significant holdings and associated undertakings continued 182 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Company registration number 04204490 Registered office The Walbrook Building 25 Walbrook London EC4N 8AF Directors Mike Humphrey (Non-executive Chairman) Alan John Aubrey (Chief Executive Officer) Michael Charles Nettleton Townend (Chief Investment Officer) Gregory Simon Smith (Chief Financial Officer) David Baynes (Chief Operating Officer) Jonathan Brooks (Non-executive Director) Professor Lynn Gladden CBE (Non-executive Director) Dr Elaine Sullivan (Non-executive Director) Professor David Knox Houston Begg (Senior Independent Director) Company secretary Angela Leach Brokers Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Registrars Link Asset Services 6th Floor 65 Gresham Street London EC2V 7NQ Bankers Royal Bank of Scotland PO Box 333 Silbury House 300 Silbury Boulevard Milton Keynes MK9 2ZF Solicitors Pinsent Masons LLP 30 Crown Place Earl Street London EC2A 4ES Independent auditor KPMG LLP 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL Company information IBC Stock Code: IPO www.ipgroupplc.com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Stock Code: IPO IP Group plc Top Floor, The Walbrook Building, 25 Walbrook, London, EC4N 8AF T +44 (0)20 7444 0050 F +44 (0)20 7929 6415 www.ipgroupplc.com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017