it’s a new, easy‑to‑plan ad solution for reaching large target audiences, and one that cannot be skipped or blocked. 3 mirriad at a glance mirriad advertising plc annual report and accounts 2017 02 strategic report effective hit brand kpis by connecting with audiences when engaged with their favourite shows scalable plan, buy, and execute large‑scale campaigns with the same control as any other video ad efficient extend an advertising budget with year‑round campaigns using existing collateral unskippable as part of the show, ads can’t be skipped or blocked on any screen targeted safely advertise in premium content perfectly relevant to an audience and a brand flexible execute stand alone or as part of an integrated campaign with minimal lead times we deliver benefits for advertisers mirriad in‑video advertising is a new solution for scalable ad campaigns that drive measurable value for brands: grow revenue create new ad inventory from within existing premium content engage viewers deliver a better, uninterrupted experience which viewers demand reduce churn keep viewers engaged with premium content create inventory offers existing advertisers more, and new ones a fresh proposition drive innovation provide a low‑overhead technology solution that’s easy to deploy and manage improve performance offer premium in‑video ad units that consistently deliver worldwide we deliver benefits for distributors our solution allows networks to generate new revenue from existing premium content without compromising audience enjoyment: 03 mirriad advertising plc annual report and accounts 2017 chairman’s statement roger conant faxon, non-executive chairman number of employees increased from 74 to 91 as we continued to expand the group’s technology group and started to build out our marketing and product teams. this is why the group has spent considerable time and resource in developing a transactional tool which we call marketplace. we have maintained our tight focus on the world’s largest and fastest growing advertising markets with high levels of video consumption. development work continued around the marketplace platform, which will enable key stakeholders such as content owners, distributors and advertisers to transact. the campaign embedded t angeche’s brand messages as ad units across more than 20 different shows over five months. it is also worth emphasising that mirriad has planned capabilities to support programmatic buying and can provide personalisation depending on our distribution partners’ infrastructure. it’s just creating more noise.” while keith weed said at the iab annual leadership meeting in 2018 that: “[consumers] don’t care about good value for advertisers. it is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated. mirriad advertising plc annual report and accounts 2017 10 strategic report description mitigation change failure to renew contracts typically the group’s contracts have 24‑month durations and as they have been signed at different times the group is generally in a state of contract renewal with one or more customers. both of the executive directors have service agreements that can be terminated by either party giving at least six months’ written notice. supplier payment policy and practice the group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers. although there are differences in the basis of debtors provisioning this is not expected to have a material impact. all group revenue comes from the primary business activity of providing native in-video advertising (“niva”) services to broadcasters, advertisers, brand owners and their agencies. computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, which does not exceed three years. on 19 december 2017, 40,958,772 ordinary shares were issued for 62p per share as part of an ipo and admission to aim, which raised £25.4 million. this number includes 84,748 preference shares issued in lieu of consideration for corporate finance adviser services provided (as per note 23).