serica’s target over the past two/three years has been to diversify the risk associated with being reliant on erskine as a single production source and grow into a profitable mid-tier independent oil and gas producer through an acquisition led strategy, concentrating on assets where we believed that we could add value through our own expertise. antony craven walker executive chairman 9 april 2018 the company had a very strong finish to what was an excellent year. equipment procurement has commenced and the installation is expected to be completed in q3 2018. so, although field production is again being curtailed during early 2018, serica has confidence that the bypass solution will assist delivery of full field potential in future years and pay for itself many times over. completion is targeted for late q3 2018. during q1 2018, bkr production has remained strong, routinely exceeding 20,000 boe per day net to bp. there is no formal board performance appraisal system in place but the corporate governance and nomination committee considers this as part of its remit. neil remained an industry specialist with citibank throughout his career and was closely involved in the development of specialised oil field finance. serica energy plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in england & wales with its registered office at 52 george street, london, w1u 7ea. the erskine asset acquisition, completed in early june 2015 brought to serica a producing interest capable of generating robust positive cash flow at current oil and gas prices. e&e assets are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities but are assessed for impairment at an asset level and in regional cgus when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of a regional cost centre may exceed its recoverable amount. for oil and gas properties when there are such indications, an impairment test is carried out on the cash generating unit. after initial measurement loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, less any allowance for impairment. amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition over the period to maturity. revenue from oil and natural gas production is recognised on an entitlement basis for the group’s net working interest. this listing of standards and interpretations issued are those that the group reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, financial position or performance when applied at a future date. the current fair value estimated provision for these amounts is us$2.7 million which has been capitalised as an asset acquisition cost (see note 15). ■ it is management’s opinion that the fair value of its financial instruments approximate to their carrying values, unless otherwise noted.