5 underlying earnings per share is profit after taxation but before exceptional items and intangible amortisation, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue. we are investing in a significant portfolio of smart meter assets which enable our customers to control their energy costs. energy reduction through consumer behaviour is creating a large market for the installation and management of intelligent technology assets. the uk domestic smart meter rollout is a government programme, requiring each energy supplier to offer installation of a smart meter in every home and business across the uk by 2020. chairman’s statement willie macdiarmid, non-executive chairman delivering our strategic plan 2017 has seen us make excellent progress and puts us in a strong position to continue to grow our share of the uk’s smart domestic meter market.” strategic report 08 willie macdiarmid, non-executive chairman the business continues to operate with a market-focused structure, with three main service lines: asset management: we fund, at highly competitive rates, new meter and data assets which we install direct or adopt from third parties. we continue to see opportunities for our adm™ device as part of other uk and international utility metering solutions. in 2017 we processed and analysed 630,000 billing points, delivered over 300 energy audits and compliance surveys and continued to identify significant opportunities for sms to deliver turnkey energy reduction projects which we expect to accelerate in 2018. s 11 alan foy, chief executive officer our business model our integrated service business model our business market potential there are over 30 million premises in the uk representing c.53 million gas and electricity meters that will be changed during the smart meter programme, of which approximately 9.4 million were exchanged by september 2017. people the business has control over a directly employed dedicated installation field force, supported by an in-house training academy. sms has highly experienced senior management and divisional teams with an established track record of successful i&c smart meter rollout. creating value supported by total dividend managed meter and data assets m 192 314 203 total employees 714 936 825 p 419 631 520 s 13 our strategy positioned to own utility assets in a fast-moving market key business focus an experienced in-house national workforce undertakes comprehensive meter installation replacement and safety review activity. the company’s it infrastructure is subject to failure from a variety of causes, including human error, power loss and physical or electronic security breaches. x the group has an it strategy which is designed to support our growing business needs and provides appropriate infrastructure. the group has contracts in place with key customers, which make up a large part of our existing portfolio. x key account managers ensure that we are listening to our customers’ requirements and translating these into business deliverables. all our divisions operate on a truly national basis, but with centres of excellence and management controlling operational delivery. our strategy for delivery: the key to both these objectives is a safe, customer-focused, trained, efficient and growing workforce. asset management’s primary objectives are: 1. manage all assets through their life, controlling capital deployment and return on investment. a professionally qualified engineer, alan places strong emphasis on team development, safety, operational performance and financial accountability within an ethos of customer satisfaction. in addition, any non ‑ executive director who has served on the board for more than nine years will be subject to annual re‑ election. the group has put in place a whistleblowing procedure where employees can confidentially report any concerns or wrong doing. we actively seek dialogue with the market as understanding what analysts and investors think about us is a key part of driving our business forward. all the information detailed in note 22 forms part of this directors’ report and is incorporated into it by reference. specifically this included obtaining an understanding of reconciling items and confirming quantities to source documentation including third-party confirmation. these factors resulted in a net increase to the overall depreciation charge of £685,000 in 2016. an item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. the group’s maximum exposure to credit risk from its customers is £20,771,000 (2016: £12,858,000) as disclosed in note 14 – trade receivables and accrued income.