tanning technologies ∙ successful scale trials with leading european tanneries; focus on completing engineering solutions to facilitate technology incorporation in existing tannery processes. saving up to 80% water and nearly 50% electricity are metrics that really resonate with south africans, who are facing rising water costs.” charl de beer founder fanute hospitality solutions 06 report for the period ending 31 december 2017 xeros technology group plc this has been another year of considerable progress at xeros. the application of xeros’ technology significantly reduces harmful contamination in firefighters’ expensive personal protective equipment (“ppe”) whilst simultaneously extending its life. we are now progressively commercialising applications in these sectors to generate profitable returns, leveraging our intellectual property and know-how with low capital requirements. we are now progressively commercialising applications in these sectors to generate profitable returns, leveraging our intellectual property and know-how with low capital requirements. similar to high performance workwear, we have demonstrated that xeros’ technology can improve cleaning results whilst simultaneously making garments look better for longer. following this demonstration, we are currently working with two major oems on the testing and validation of xeros’ technology inside their own branded machines. the objective being to have these companies marketing, selling and servicing machines incorporating xeros’ technology through their own well-established channels. we are currently focused on commercialising our technology in the retanning and dyeing stages which use large volumes of water to apply specialty chemicals. we have now successfully demonstrated that xeros’ technology has the capacity to deliver water, chemistry, energy and effluent reductions which at least match performance outcomes in our other selected applications. outlook with the development of our cleaning and tanning technologies materially completed during 2017, xeros is now focused on their commercialisation. adjusted ebitda is defined as the loss on ordinary activities before interest, tax, share-based payment expense, non-operating exceptional costs, depreciation and amortisation. its patented technologies have the capacity to provide material economic, operational and sustainability improvements that are unattainable with traditional processes. fair value share-based payment charges recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income attributable to these directors are: mark nichols £397,286 (2016: £715,519), paul denney £214,426 (2016: £nil), chris hanson £nil (2016: £55,163), dr steve jenkins £nil (2016: £1,499).