recurring revenues for 2017 were at record levels and, despite the ongoing investment in product development, cash reserves have held up well. filefinder is an executive search database, crm system, research tool, report writer and project management solution all rolled into one. dividends in view of the fund raising carried out to develop gatedtalent, we did not pay an interim dividend. after a slow january, orders for dillistone systems’ filefinder product improved significantly in february and march and ended the quarter more than 25% up on the same period in 2017. many of these orders were driven by demand for our gatedtalent product which features exclusive integration with filefinder anywhere. imagine if this database included detailed, private information on those executives – including biographical, aspirational and often compensation data. virtually any executive recruiter storing information covered by the gdpr will need to go through a process of confirming and proving that their data is legal. the businesses can easily lose market share if its products are not well regarded either from being “out of date” or “buggy”. the independent non-executive directors have letters of appointment providing fixed three-year service periods, which may be terminated by giving six months’ notice. see note 13. in addition, management use a best estimate to determine the amount of directors’ costs that are capitalised. perpetual licence fee revenues are recognised on practical acceptance of the software, when all obligations have been substantially completed. to the extent that payments have been received in advance for such services these amounts are recognised as deferred income. all employee services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based compensation are measured at their fair values. all equity-settled share-based compensation is ultimately recognised as an expense in the profit or loss with a corresponding credit to share based payment reserve, net of deferred tax where applicable. no adjustment to expenses recognised in prior periods is made if fewer share options ultimately are exercised than originally estimated. with the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist. development costs that do not meet the requirements for capitalisation are written off to profit and loss as incurred. the group’s other ‘financial liabilities measured at amortised cost’ comprise trade payables, intercompany trading balances (in relation to company accounts), bank loans and accruals. under ifrs 15, licences sold with elective support contracts are separate performance obligations and continue to be recognised at a point in time. the fair value of all options granted is shown as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.