The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Contents Strategic Report 1 Results and highlights 2 Connecting a smarter future 10 Business at a glance 12 Chairman’s statement 14 Chief Executive Officer’s strategic review 18 Market trends 20 Our business model 22 Strategy at a glance 24 Key performance indicators 26 Risk management 28 Principal risks and uncertainties 32 Operating review 44 Financial review 50 Sustainability Corporate Governance 55 Chairman’s introduction to governance 56 Board of Directors 58 Directors’ statement on corporate governance 66 Nomination Committee Report 68 Audit Committee Report 74 Report on Directors’ Remuneration 94 Directors’ Report 98 Directors’ responsibilities statement Financial Statements 99 Independent auditor’s report 108 Consolidated income statement 109 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 110 Consolidated balance sheet 111 Consolidated cash flow statement 112 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 150 Parent Company balance sheet 151 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 152 Notes to the parent Company financial statements 166 Full list of subsidiary undertakings Other Information 168 Financial history 170 Shareholder information 171 Glossary IBC Contact details Performance highlights Financial highlights Revenue $454.8m -1% 2016 $457.9m Adjusted operating profit 1 $58.9m +27% 2016 $46.5m Adjusted operating margin 1 13.0% +2.8 2016 10.2% Profit/(loss) before tax $46.6m +$92.6m 2016 $46.0m loss Free cash flow² $56.4m +118% 2016 $25.9m Adjusted basic earnings per share³ 7.55c +43% 2016 5.29c Dividend per share 4.08c +5% 2016 3.89c Special dividend per share 5.00c 2016 Nil Networks & Security • Strong growth in our Positioning and Application Security businesses was offset by some softness in high- speed Ethernet testing as customers transition to new 400G platforms. Connected Devices • We delivered a strong performance turnaround, by materially reducing costs and focusing on our core areas of differentiation, returning to solid profitability. The average annualised cost of cybercrime worldwide is $11.7 million per company and ransomware attacks have doubled in frequency¹. Bill Thomas Chairman Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2017 12 Special dividend per share 5.00c In 2016, the Group’s strategy was amended to focus on a few key strategic growth areas – cyber security, network assurance and new wireless services. This will enable our customers to realise their vision of supplying data connectivity with lower cost, higher reliability and security. Within this broad landscape there are market disrupters: virtualisation, the Internet of Things (IoT), 5G wireless and cyber security. Connected things range from personal devices, such as a smart stylus, through large autonomous vehicles and industrial infrastructure. We will deploy systems in production networks for active test and management to lower the cost of operations. • We are a founding member of the industry group NetSecOPEN, focused on defining new open standards for testing enterprise network security performance. We are a founding member of the industry group NetSecOPEN, focused on defining new open standards for testing enterprise network security performance. Market driver Opportunities for Spirent Our response Read more: Strategy at glance, KPIs, Principal risks and Operating reviews. The Board has determined that a three-year period should be used when assessing viability, as explained on page 97 of this Annual Report. Intellectual property claims can result in significant defence costs, and may affect Spirent’s ability to market its products. Over recent years there has been significant consolidation in our customer base amongst service providers and network equipment manufacturers. Competitor activity is closely monitored with a view to maintaining clear differentiation based on Spirent’s products, services and global reach. Acquisitions A key element of Spirent’s strategy is to develop new capabilities and technologies, sometimes through acquisition. Underperformance by acquisitions will impact the Group’s results and may lead to impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets. Our business strategy can be summarised as follows: • To lead in high-speed Ethernet/IP performance testing of emerging standards for data centers and wide area networks. • Early in 2017, we announced the Spirent PT TestBench, a testing, analysis and reporting application to help developers build more accurate positioning functions quickly, embodying over 30 years of Spirent GNSS testing expertise, enabling users to setup, run and interpret tests with a single mouse click. • We are a founding member of the industry group NetSecOPEN, focused on defining open standards for testing enterprise network security performance. Realise virtualised solutions The internet protocol network industry is amid a revolutionary technology transformation driven by virtualisation enabling technologies, such as SDN and NFV. Our active test solutions provide superior ability to isolate and resolve issues in virtualised network environments where traditional passive approaches are less effective. “Spirent’s test platform allows us to test the overall network experience so that we can be certain the end user experience is the best it can be.” Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2017 37 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Operating review continued Our strategy can be summarised as follows: • To develop active service assurance systems for Ethernet business service, mobile network turn-up, troubleshooting and optimisation, enhancing our ability to win business at Tier 1 carriers. Performance highlights • Sucessfully secured fifteen deals over $1 miilion, totalling about $50 million in 2017, as evidence our strategy is working. They reduce churn by aggregating and analysing data from multiple sources to provide real-time insights into the customers’ experience. The project demonstrates how network functions virtualisation (NFV) and open interfaces enable radically faster service innovation with fewer resources. Spirent’s solutions enable carriers to validate the most stringent requirements, including internet protocol multimedia subsystem signalling themes, mobility scenarios, and user experience evaluation. • China Telecom Corporation Limited, one of the world’s largest mobile telephone operators, selected our Spirent Umetrix Voice solution to help ensure that handsets are able to deliver superior call quality by setting stringent quality requirements and by measuring the performance of every new smartphone. The first commercial networks based on standalone 5G NR are expected to go live in 2019, with major network deployments from 2020. The highlights were a robust performance from Lifecycle Service Assurance, with 10 per cent revenue growth and adjusted operating margin increased to 16.4 per cent, and the profitability turnaround of Connected Devices, which delivered an improvement in adjusted operating profit of $9.6 million on lower revenue. The total Group investment in product development was reduced by $8.7 million, despite cost inflation, which reflects our focused approach to concentrate resources on specific higher growth potential areas. All policies are available on our website at Helping to revolutionise R&D labs: dramatically reducing test times and environmental impacts Hardware R&D labs are energy intensive, with test equipment and development hardware mounted in racks in a noisy, air-conditioned environment. Our internal controls are audited, and we have a whistleblower procedure in place for staff to report information security or any other concerns. He was Chief Financial Officer at Laird plc until 2015, having held a variety of roles in his 30 years with the company. Non-executive Directors In addition to their responsibilities for strategy and business results, the non-executive directors play a key role in providing a solid foundation for good corporate governance and ensure that no individual or group dominates the Board’s decision making. More details are set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 28 to 31 of this Annual Report. High level controls All businesses prepare annual operating plans and budgets which are supplemented by regular forecasts throughout the year. Other individuals, such as the Chief Executive Officer and external advisers, may be invited to attend meetings when appropriate. Procedures for appointing a non-executive or an executive director are set out in the Committee’s terms of reference. Corporate Governance Report on Directors’ Remuneration We will seek to bring our executive reward model into alignment with the evolving expectations of investors. The Committee remains committed to engaging in regular, meaningful dialogue with shareholders and, where appropriate, investor representative bodies. Corporate Governance Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2017 80 Shareholding guidelines for executive directors The Committee believes that to further align their interests with those of shareholders, executive directors should have a significant shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 100 per cent of their base salary in the form of shares and unfettered share incentive awards which may be built up over time following appointment as an executive director. Corporate Governance Report on Directors’ Remuneration continued Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2017 82 Share incentive interests awarded during the year In 2017, the Committee approved an award of Performance Shares to Mr Hutchinson and Ms Bell equivalent to 150 per cent and 100 per cent of base salary respectively. When recruiting non-executive directors, the remuneration arrangements offered will generally be in line with those set out above. The Group encourages an open culture in all its dealings between employees and people with whom it comes into contact. Every effort is made to protect the confidentiality of those who raise concerns and employees may come forward without fear for their position. We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in four locations, which covered 93 per cent of Group reported revenue. • Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identiﬁed in the paragraphs above. After technological feasibility is established, additional costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life. Contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values to every component. The extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based on current forecasts and estimates prepared by management. Judgement is required when determining probable future taxable profits, which are estimated using the latest available profit forecasts. Judgements Revenue recognition For revenue recognition purposes, contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values to every component. Profit before tax Total reportable segment profit/(loss) before exceptional items 43.9 17.9 5.2 (8.1) 58.9 Exceptional items 6 (3.9) (0.1) (1.4) (1.3) (6.7) Total reportable segment profit/(loss) 40.0 17.8 3.8 (9.4) 52.2 Unallocated amounts Acquired intangible asset amortisation (6.3) Share-based payment 31 (2.2) Operating profit 43.7 Finance income 0.6 Finance costs (0.3) Gain on divestment 33 2.6 Profit before tax 46.6 Other information Product development 53.6 30.9 18.5 – 103.0 Intangible asset amortisation – other – – 0.8 – 0.8 Depreciation 15 9.6 3.5 4.8 0.1 18.0 2016 operating segment information has been restated for the following changes to the Group’s operating segments which came into effect on 1 January 2017: The operating segments were reorganised to focus certain product lines and to combine resources and planning efforts in other product lines. The plan has elements of a defined benefit pension retirement obligation and therefore is required to be valued in accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. Revenue is expected to grow at Connected Devices as the smartphone market recovers, driven by network emulator partnerships with growth in 5G. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these items as their future recovery is uncertain. All fixed rate deposits mature within three months after which date they will be exposed to floating rates of interest. Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for uncollectable amounts where appropriate. Based on these procedures, management assessed the quality of those receivables that are past due but not impaired as low risk. The following information relates to outstanding share incentives at 31 December 2017: 2017 2016 Share plan Exercise period (as at 31 December) Range of exercise prices pence Weighted average exercise price pence Number of share incentives outstanding million Weighted average remaining contractual life years Weighted average exercise price pence Number of share incentives outstanding million Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2005 Employee Incentive Plan 28.04.14-17.05.25 – – 1.3 7.3 1 2.9 7.9 28.04.14-10.08.25 87-89 89 2.2 7.2 93 3.8 7.9 Spirent Long-Term Incentive Plan 16.06.16-17.05.27 – – 6.5 9.9 – 3.9 9.5 10.0 10.6 Discretionary plans Spirent Long-Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) The LTIP, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, is available for selected employees, including executive directors, on a discretionary basis. Contractual arrangements are accounted for as two or more separate transactions only where the commercial substance is that the individual components operate independently of each other, because they are capable of being provided separately from one another and it is possible to attribute reliable fair values to every component. After technological feasibility is established, additional costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life. A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as their future recovery is uncertain. Figures for the Spirent Long-Term Incentive Plan include share options, stock appreciation rights and Performance Shares in aggregate. EV-DO is an evolution of the CDMA2000 (IS-2000) standard that supports high data rates and can be deployed alongside a wireless carrier’s voice services. A receiver uses minute differences in measured time signals from clocks on satellites to calculate these positions and altitudes. Virtual Evolved Packet Core (vEPC) A framework for virtualising the functions required to converge voice and data on 4G Long-Term Evolution (LTE) networks. vEPC moves the core network’s individual components from dedicated hardware to software that operates on low-cost commercial off-the-shelf servers.