What was a quite fragmented business is now organised through four clear Operating Divisions, with real focus around customers and end market verticals. As Shareholders may remember, these headline objectives were underpinned by a six-part action plan: to simplify our operating structure, enhance the management model, be more proactive on portfolio management, pursue a focused and disciplined acquisition strategy, increase investment in organic growth initiatives and improve our funding discipline. While we complete the rollout of our new Group-wide ERP, certain legacy Penton platforms remain in place to support their operations. This is reflected in the range of benefits available to all colleagues, which includes our colleague equity/share incentive plan ShareMatch. Mike Ward Head of Pharma Content, Business Intelligence Informa brands: Insight & intelligence: In Vivo, Scrip, Sitetrove, Trialtrove, Biomedtracker See pharmaintelligence.informa.com for more detail Exhibitions & events: Arab Health, MEDLAB, FIME, Biotech Showcase, Biotech Week Boston, Partnerships in Clinical Trials Other Information Services: Pharma Consulting, Care/Scrip Awards STRATEGIC REPORT 15 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.INFORMA.COM GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS CONTINUED TMT: TELECOMS AT THE TIPPING POINT T he future of telecoms and TV is fast emerging, with TV reaching a long-awaited tipping point and the rapid adoption of mobile broadband leading to innovation in services. HEAL TH & NUTRITION: CLEAN CHOICES I n the US, consumers are increasingly paying attention to what they put in and on their bodies. They are reading product labels, scrutinising chemical-sounding or perceived unnatural ingredients, and seeking out healthier, less processed offerings that their grandparents would recognise. Rob Gallagher Research Director, Consumer & Electronic Services, Ovum At our own Natural Products Expo West and East, more than 1,000 new finished product brands launch each year. In commercial aviation, the large jetliner market continues to grow, fuelled by new demand for air travel and more efficient aircraft. Global economic growth, rising numbers of middle-class travellers in emerging markets and low interest rates are underpinning strong demand for new airplanes. But the civil MRO market is experiencing some churn as large aerospace contractors, most notably Boeing, aim to grab a larger share of those lucrative revenues. Mitigating activities Informa has an international customer base, selling into over 165 countries, which dilutes the effect of downturns in specific geographies. The Group’s aim is to not rely on individual partners, but in certain conditions, markets and geographies this can be unavoidable. Impact Change not managed effectively could result in unrealised opportunities, poor project delivery, colleague turnover, erosion of value and failure to deliver growth. Major incident Financial impact considered low Not modelled for the viability statement Oversight: Risk Committee Description A significant accident or event. Impact Loss of sensitive data through mismanagement, theft, cyber-crime or security breaches could lead to losses for our stakeholders, damaged reputation, investigations, fines and business interruption. If a significant loss materialised, this would distract from our strategic goals through excessive demands on management time to respond. The Group seeks to build on these strong foundations with continued investment in its products and customer platforms, alongside further expansion. As described on pages 27 to 32, a number of principal risk factors could potentially affect the Group’s results and financial position. Our recommended recruitment practices, which were promoted internally during 2017, standardise and enhance how candidates are selected, including using mixed-gender panel interviews where practical. “We are now seeing year-on-year customer performance metrics, and in time aim to build trend data across multiple years. As Mark Robinson, Communications Manager for Authors & Researchers at Taylor & Francis, explains: “The publishing process can seem complex, especially to those just starting out. Work is underway to prepare the first report on our payment practices and performance for UK-related contracts by July 2018, as required under new UK legislation. Opportunities where colleagues contribute their professional skills are particularly encouraged, as a way of lending extra capabilities to the organisation while developing personally. Textbooks that address lower level undergraduate study have continued to suffer from broader market headwinds, particularly in the US, where higher education enrolment is down and alternative, cheap, book rental models are becoming more popular. Journals continued to perform strongly over the year, maintaining a high level of subscription renewals and consistent, modest growth. Authors, funders, institutions and users are based all over the world, with research developments readily travelling across borders amongst specialist communities. “Commercially, increasing usage means that over time, we can build on our current ebook revenue streams and explore new opportunities from additional digital services. It also makes it easier to add new content on a continuous basis.” Subscription 53% Unit sales 47% DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE (%) North America 51% Rest of World 25% Continental Europe 13% UK 11% DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY (%) Another key trend is the use of technology and digital platforms, whether for content delivery, customer tracking or search capability. Another change as part of the Penton integration was to appoint two Divisional managing directors, each responsible for three vertical businesses. But its historical format – PDF reports delivered by email, with limited online presence – was increasingly preventing the full use of content and data by customers, as well as limiting the ability of sales teams to attract new subscribers and product development teams to create additional services. “In terms of key features, at the heart was fast access to Fertecon’s market data, and improved search. On top of this, it gives us a platform for exploring and introducing additional services and enhancements in the future, not just for Fertecon, but also through combining and building on our proprietary market intelligence across the full Agribusiness value chain.” Subscriptions 75% Unit sales 7% Advertising 18% DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE (%) North America 62% Rest of World 14% Continental Europe 12% UK 12% DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY (%) Over the same period, intelligence – trusted, specialist, action- oriented insight that provides information on what businesses can and should do – has increased in value, as customers seek to gain competitive advantage in the information era, more so than general news reporting or simple industry analysis, which can increasingly be found for free. This provides flexibility for exhibitors through a more customer service-oriented approach, with the potential to improve rebooking rates and generate incremental yields. The first, Omnia, launched in Life Sciences, to provide customers with rich data on buyer behaviour and targeted, developed sales leads. “The show is a buzzing place – in 2016 there were over 4,100 exhibitors across more than 22 halls, plus many ancillary events and country pavilions. “Splitting out the events helped cement medical laboratory as its own sector and create a true community in this space. This enhances customer relationships, builds loyalty around core branded events and provides new revenue opportunities, particularly in specialist marketing services. Proactive portfolio management leaves the Division streamlined, with a core of internationally focused events in key verticals and geographic hubs. Sponorship is another major source of revenue, with corporates investing in promotional activities connected to the event, including presenter and demonstration slots. Attendee 45% Sponsorship 21% Exhibitor 23% Advertising 11% DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY TYPE (%) North America 40% Rest of World 19% Continental Europe 28% UK 13% DIVISIONAL REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY (%) To be successful, event organisers need to invest in their brands and the experiences they offer, demonstrating value and making them must-attend events in their community or sector. Knowledge & Networking is now focused on three key verticals, and the trends within each industry sector will ultimately influence its performance. This includes benchmarking criteria brought to life through a set of 40 ideas that can enhance an event’s positive impact. Outside of Informa, we view the market for knowledge, business- to-business events and information services as an attractive one. In the ordinary course of business, the Directors meet a wide range of colleagues each year, from executive management who attend Board meetings, Divisional leadership teams who provide presentations on specific business matters at Board, to Committee and Strategy meetings, as well as colleagues from many different functions and geographies. As part of its ongoing review on Board effectiveness the Nomination Committee looks at whether each Director is sufficiently independent. When considering succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers candidates from a wide range of backgrounds. Informa’s Chairman, Derek Mapp, attends meetings by invitation only and he is not present when matters relating to his remuneration are discussed. As part of our regular three-year cycle, we will be asking Shareholders to approve an updated Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM. As part of this process we will continue to regularly engage with Executive Directors and Shareholders, particularly if any changes are proposed. Details of any such payments will be set out in the relevant year’s Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise. The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment that can be terminated by either party on three months’ notice. For the senior management team, base salary is reviewed annually and takes into account factors consistent with those applied to Executive Director pay. The Group’s remuneration policy for colleagues as a whole is based on principles that are broadly consistent with those applied to Executive Directors. Full details of performance targets and outturn for 2018 will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. All above figures include salary, bonus payments and benefits package, with the CEO’s figure including full LTIP earnings. Stephen A. Carter’s beneficial shareholding receives shares, rather than cash, dividends through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”), which is open to all Shareholders. DSBP shares have been restated due an administrative error in the 2016 Annual Report and include accrued dividends to 31 December 2017. Details of their interests in shares (including those held by connected persons) as at 31 December 2017 are set out below and have not changed up to the date of this report: Non-Executive Director Shareholdings as at 31 December 2017 Derek Mapp 128,594 Gareth Bullock 12,859 Cindy Rose 4,375 Helen Owers 3,767 Stephen Davidson 3,350 David Flaschen 1 7,000 John Rishton 8,681 1. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 This year’s AGM will be held on Friday 25 May 2018, in the Heritage Room, Number Twenty, Grosvenor Street, Mayfair, London W1K 4QJ, at 11.00 am. We originally planned to take a controls reliance approach in the UK shared services centre, with fully substantive audits being undertaken by other component teams. Barter transactions typically involve the trading of advertisements and trade show space in exchange for services provided at events. The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when incurred. The Group has provision policies for its various Divisions which have been determined by reference to past default experience. The acquisition and integration provision of £2.2m at 31 December 2017 relates to amounts incurred but not yet settled associated with acquisitions. In addition, at 31 December 2017 , there was a commitment to issue $400m of private placement loan notes and these were issued on 4 January 2018. (e) Foreign currency risk The Group is a business with significant net US dollar (“USD”) transactions; hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise. Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved as part of the Group’s treasury policies. 1m Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years. Box 422, Fujairah, UAE ZA1 Broadacres Business Centre, Corner Cedar and 3rd Avenue, Broadacres Sandton, Gauteng 2021, South Africa EUROPE AT1 Wipplingerstrasse 24, 1010 Wien, Austria BE1 Rue de Commerce 20/22, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium ES1 C/Azcona, 36 Bajo, 28028 Madrid, Spain FR1 2 Rue de Lisbonne, 75008, Paris, France GE1 Isartorplatz 4, 80331, Munich, Germany GE2 AM Muhlengraben 22, 23909, Ratzeburg, Germany IR1 c/o Matheson, 70 Sir John Rogerson’s Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland JE1 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey MC1 Le Suffren, 7 Rue Suffren-Reymond, 98000, Monaco NE1 Kabelweg 37 , 1014 BA, Amsterdam, Netherlands NE2 Schimmelt 32, Kantoor C, 7E Verdieping, 561 1 ZX, Eindhoven, Netherlands NO1 c/o Wahl-Larson, Advokatfirma AS, Fridtjof Nansens Plass 5, Oslo 0160, Norway SE1 Box 3255, 103 65, Stockholm, Sweden SW1 Baarerstrasse 139, 6300 Zug, Switzerland The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.