we firmly believe that belvoir is best placed to take advantage of consolidation at both the franchisee and franchisor level. online agents have succeeded in lowering the public’s expectation of how much they should be paying for estate agency services. the increase in msf reflects growth across our existing network of offices and a full year’s contribution from northwood. belvoir’s rental index for the final quarter of 2017 confirms that rents are rising broadly in line with average wages. in one case the new owner was already operating two existing lettings businesses, which will now be rebranded to belvoir. the acquisition of brook also helped us build on this opportunity, as franchisees can generate additional revenue from each house sale whilst offering their clients a more comprehensive property service. franchising offers a relatively low risk way for young people to get into business with one in five franchise owners launching their business in the last two years being under the age of 30. it also offers opportunity for scale with 29% of franchises running multiple outlets. current trading and outlook 2018 has started well with eight franchisees having completed on portfolio acquisitions estimated to bring in a total of £2.8m p.a. our markets continued 15 annual report and accounts 2017 belvoir lettings plc the importance of estate agency for the group with our belvoir and northwood networks being relative newcomers to estate agency, this market still represents more of an opportunity than a risk to us. the acquisition of brook in july 2017 also presents an opportunity for increased revenue from sales once integrated into our franchisees’ business operations. this will be an extremely welcome addition to its income particularly when faced with the probable withdrawal of tenant fees in 2019. total group msf income 17+ 83+n belvoir northwood newton fallowell the sales market residential property transactions have remained fairly static throughout 2017 potentially due to continued economic uncertainty and static wages. financial reporting there is a comprehensive planning system, including regular periodic forecasts which are presented to and approved by the board. their service contracts contain no provisions for predetermined compensation on termination which exceed one year’s salary and benefits in kind. in particular, we challenged management’s assessment that there were no acquired intangible assets and found this to be reasonable. the trade names which have been identified separately are assessed as having a life reflecting their respective trading histories. with the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist. belvoir yardley came under corporate ownership between 3 may 2017 and 1 november 2017, when it was resold to a new franchise owner. in common with all other businesses, the group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments.