as i reported last year this involved taking some difficult decisions, particularly regarding the organisation of our manufacturing and logistics operations. this year i also spent time with an employee panel, a particularly helpful experience given the significant changes that we are making in our supply chain. that’s why we donate at least one per cent of our pre-tax profits to the greggs foundation and fundraise all year round for this fantastic charity. making good, freshly prepared food accessible to all income levels is embedded in our core purpose as a brand with outstanding value meal deals setting us apart from the competition. look closer at how we are being more socially responsible on pages 16-23 12 greggs plc annual report and accounts 2017 we have a strong pipeline of new shop openings for 2018 and are planning to further accelerate our shop growth, aiming to add in the range of 110-130 net new shops in the year. working in a greggs shop is very demanding so we rely on our amazing teams to deliver fast, friendly service under pressure. 4. first class support teams we have made further significant progress in the fourth year of our major process and systems investment programme. these included the award-winning greggs breakfast club programme which, with support from 80 partners, now provides six million free wholesome breakfasts each year to children in over 465 primary schools. we are currently conducting a trial in 20 shops across manchester and liverpool city centres to establish feasibility for in-store recycling of hot drinks cups. this will give us the opportunity to ensure we have a robust and effective process in place before potentially rolling out further. we made a ‘pledge for veg’ in partnership with the food foundation which will enable us to help customers increase their vegetable intake through our salads, soups and cold sandwiches. during that time, our team members and customers have helped raise over £8.5 million for the charity – something we are all incredibly proud of! this information will prove invaluable in helping our shop teams to deliver a great greggs customer experience every day. more products will feature in 2018 as we create new reasons to visit us for food-on-the-go, at all times of the day. the result reflects strong sales growth in a year when, as expected, we experienced higher than historical cost inflation. this is covered two times by diluted earnings per share before exceptional items in line with our progressive dividend policy. additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to management or deemed less material currently, may also have an adverse effect on the business. at these meetings it reviews strategy, financial performance against key indicators, resources, risk management and other matters reserved for the board. the audit committee currently consists of four independent non-executive directors: allison kirkby (chair), helena ganczakowski, peter mcphillips and sandra turner. the nominations committee did not seek external consultancy support during 2017. following appointment, new directors are subject to an in-depth tailored induction process. consequently, the roce ranges have been increased to ensure that they remain appropriately stretching in light of our business strategy, without encouraging undue risk taking. the strategic objectives for each bonus cycle are based on measures which will provide a strong link to future value creation. where appropriate a sliding scale of targets is set for each kpi to encourage continuous improvement, or sustained high performance. retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be made in next year’s annual report on remuneration. for these awards the roce ranges have been increased to ensure that they remain appropriately stretching in light of our business strategy without encouraging undue risk taking. this includes raymond reynolds, who did not receive any payments for loss of office following his departure from the board on 19 may 2017. he remains employed by greggs in a different role. value-in-use calculations are based on management’s estimates of future cash flows generated by the assets and an appropriate discount rate. (w) ifrss available for early adoption not yet applied the following standards and amendments to standards which will be relevant to the group were available for early adoption but have not been applied in these accounts: – ifrs 9 financial instruments (effective date 1 january 2018) – ifrs 15 revenue from contracts with customers (effective date 1 january 2018) none of these standards and amendments is expected to have a significant impact on the accounts when they are adopted. this proposed dividend is subject to approval at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these accounts. solicitor registered office greggs house quorum business park newcastle upon tyne ne12 8bu registered number 502851 bankers national westminster bank plc 149 high street gosforth newcastle upon tyne ne3 1ha auditor kpmg llp quayside house 110 quayside newcastle upon tyne ne1 3dx stockbrokers ubs 5 broadgate london ec2m 2qs investec 2 gresham street london ec2v 7qp solicitors muckle llp time central 32 gallowgate newcastle upon tyne ne1 4bf registrars link asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu secretary and advisers announcement of results and dividends half year late july full year early march dividends interim mid-october final 18 may 2018 annual report posted to shareholders late march annual general meeting 9 may 2018 corporate.greggs.co.uk greggs plc company registered number 502851 greggs plc annual report and accounts 2017