new order intake was driven by additional technology modules, increased user licenses and cross selling other portfolio solutions to existing customers. i am very pleased with the way employees have embraced change and would like to thank everyone for their contribution. we have one final stage of the integration left which is moving osmo’s core it systems and processes onto our standard operating platform within shared services. uk debt levels were at £1,720 billion for the financial year ending march 2017 which represented 86.7% of gross domestic product (“gdp”). since then our solutions have been continually developed and shaped to serve the evolving needs of corporation tax departments. during 2017, we explored five different partnering opportunities but concluded that, in the short term, alternative acquisition options were our preference. at 31 december 2017, the group’s balance sheet includes deferred income of £6.9m in relation to contracts where outcomes are being delivered over time. governmental developments governments may introduce new tax compliance portals and procedures requiring changes to the group’s technology suite. prior to accumuli plc, gavin was head of telecoms & utilities at sap uk&i, the global market and technology leader in business management software. the group is committed to employment policies which follow best practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital status, disability, age or sexual orientation. based on our professional judgement, we determined overall materiality for the group financial statements as a whole to be £350,000, which represents 5% of adjusted ebitda (2016: £300,000). where considered appropriate performance materiality may be reduced to a lower level, such as, for related party transactions and directors’ remuneration. errors below that threshold would also be reported to it if, in our opinion as auditor, disclosure was required on qualitative grounds. they are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of reporting period date. the fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. the group may issue new shares or realise value from its existing investments and other assets as deemed necessary. due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of that stated above for doubtful receivables. instead, a cumulative adjustment has been recognised through retained earnings at 1 january 2017 in relation to agreements which still required performance by the group at that date as follows: as previously accounting adjusted reported adjustments balance £’000 £’000 £’000 deferred tax asset 13 831 844 trade and other receivables 2,880 412 3,292 deferred income (1,518) (4,765) (6,283) deferred income will unwind through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income within a twelve month period and is expected to be replaced by a similar level of deferral into future periods.