FIND OUT MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS ONLINE AT BAKKAVOR.COM SEE HOW IT’S MADE BLOG.BAKKAVOR.COM 2017 HIGHLIGHTS A year of good progress with solid foundations for future growth. Forward-looking statements involve uncertainties because they relate to events, and depend on circumstances, that will, or may, occur in the future. We have seen this particularly in China, where our customers are expanding rapidly and extending their fresh offering. Many are potentially impacted by the Brexit process and we have been working to support them at a time of significant personal uncertainty. Simon Burke Non-executive Independent Chairman 9 April 2018 A YEAR OF GOOD PROGRESS, WITH SOLID FOUNDATIONS FOR FUTURE GROWTH CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 6 Bakkavor Group plc — 2017 Annual Report We have been a fresh prepared food pioneer for decades, harnessing our expertise in chilled manufacturing and fresh produce to successfully create high-quality products that continually meet consumers’ ever-evolving tastes and demands. COMPLEX MANUFACTURING Our factories are operational 24/7, 364 days a year, providing over 2,000 different short shelf-life products to customers every day. In addition, consumers are increasingly confident about ordering fresh prepared food online, which is further supported through delivery options such as ‘click and collect’. WE OCCUPY A LEADING POSITION IN A GROWING MARKET Population aged 45 and over (millions) Single households Too busy to cook Food chosen for health reasons Choosing meals at the last minute Frequency of shopping trips (per buyer, per annum) † OC&C Strategy Consultants’ analysis of multiple sources. We have seen good volume growth within our core business, working with customers on product and packaging innovation to create further differentiation in this market. Our ongoing investment programme of around £50 million per annum ensures we have capacity in place for medium-term growth across all categories. In China, we have benefited from the rapid rate at which our customers are expanding their store and restaurant portfolios. In China, we also continued to test the convenience market with our ‘Fresh Kitchen’ range of prepared meals where initial consumer response has been very positive. We have improved our operating efficiency with selected investments, including in the areas of leaf processing and packaging automation. A CONFIDENT OUTLOOK The second half of 2017 saw volume growth impacted as UK consumers reacted to significant inflationary pressure. Later in the year, we expect our volume growth to benefit from improved market conditions and new business. By collaborating across our sites, we bring together different competencies including allergen management, delicate fruit preparation and technical yoghurt processing. Pomegranate seeds have become increasingly popular due to their health benefits — they also make a great topping on our breakfast pots. Our significant expertise in growing, planning and buying was critical during this past year of volatile input pricing. We also launched the UK’s first charcoal-base pizza range, which proved very popular with consumers and again attracted favourable media reviews. In the year we have seen a number of new investments to enhance capacity and capability following business wins. Our international businesses in the US and China continue to grow as consumer preferences increasingly shift towards fresh prepared food. Whilst the business in China has profited from strong volume growth, inflationary pressures have partly offset this benefit. CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS In China, we saw strong growth as we continued to develop our presence in the international and local foodservice markets, fuelled by the rapid rate at which key customers are expanding their store and restaurant portfolios. Notes: Throughout this report all comparative amounts are presented for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2016 unless otherwise stated. For example, ingredients such as baby leaf lettuce are prepared, packed and despatched within 24 hours of picking from the field. Our quick turnaround capability enables us to receive orders for our customers ‘on-the-day, for-the-day.’ SEE HOW IT’S MADE blog.bakkavor.com RISK MANAGEMENT Bakkavor’s risk management process is designed to help the Group deliver against its strategy, while protecting the interests of key stakeholders and safeguarding assets including its people, finances and reputation. The system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate all risks. The Group has significant facilities governed by financing agreements under which we are subject to various financial covenants and undertakings. This increase in revenue was primarily due to strong growth across all key customers, with underlying volumes benefiting from the full-year effect of recent business wins. This resulted in a funding shortfall which continues to be paid over an agreed eight-year recovery period ending on 31 March 2024. SEE HOW IT’S MADE blog.bakkavor.com STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY At Bakkavor, we recognise and take seriously the significant trust placed in us by our stakeholders. Bakkavor manufactures food that is not only great tasting for consumers, but which also meets the highest standards of safety. As a responsible business, Bakkavor recognises that its operations have both direct and indirect impacts on the environment. Bakkavor continues to support its people through local initiatives and launched a UK-wide Employee Assistance Programme (“EAP”) in 2017. 2017 was a progressive year for Bakkavor in terms of its governance structures, as it transitioned to public ownership. Robert is currently a Managing Director of Baupost and received his education from the Washington & Lee University in Virginia, United States. During his career at Bakkavor he has held a number of senior roles and was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2014. The Management Board receives regular presentations from heads of key Group functions, enabling it to explore specific issues and developments in greater detail. It also established via reports from management that there were no indications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters. The Committee takes a keen interest in governance and will seek to comply with good practice principles going forward. Prior to Admission, Peter Gates and other selected Bakkavor employees were granted share option awards on a one-off basis. Therefore, if you have any comments or feedback on this report, then please let me know through the General Counsel and Company Secretary. Subsequent demonstration of strong performance may result in a salary increase that is higher than for the wider workforce. The first set of LTIP awards will be subject to relative TSR and earnings per share growth targets. Robert Berlin does not receive any fees from the Group in respect of his role as Non-executive Director. The Company Chairman may attend meetings but is not present when his own remuneration arrangements are being decided. Executive Directors will continue to receive benefits that include family private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection, health screening and company car/car allowances. development projects (25%) It is not possible to disclose specific targets in advance as this would give a clear indication of the Group’s business objectives, which are commercially sensitive. However, full details of the targets and performance against them will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report. In line with the Remuneration Policy, one-third of any bonus earned will be deferred for three years, conditional upon continued employment. It does this through a formal process of SEFs where representatives meet annually with the Chief Executive Officer to review business performance. However, Group level accruals for volume related rebate arrangements that cover multiple sites and product categories are more complex. Anti-avoidance prin ciples are first agreed internationally by the OECD members and then each country incorporates those principles into its domestic legislation. None of these ot her measures is expected to have a material impact on our future tax charge. The 8.75% Senior Secured Notes due in 2020 contained a call option from 15 June 2016 that under IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ should be accounted for as an embedded derivative an d is required to be separately accounted for at fair value wit h the issued bond value carried at amortised cost. All leases are on a fixed repa yment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. These models use as their basis independently sourced market parameters including, for example, interest rate yield curves and currency rates. The treasury function does not operate as a profit centre, makes no speculative transactions and only enters into or trades financial instruments to manage specific exposures. A 10% increase/decrease has been used, as it represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exch ange rates. A 100 basis points increase or decrease has been used, as these ar e management’s assessment of reasonably possible changes in i nterest rates. These schemes are either trust- or contract-based and ha ve been set up in accordance with appropriate legislation. The results were updated for IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ purposes to 30 December 2017 by a qu alified independent actuary with Willis Towers Watson. long-term trend fro m 2007 onwards, giving life expectancies as follows: Males’ expected future lifetime 2017 Males’ expected future lifetime 2016 Females’ expected future lifetime 2017 Females’ expected future lifetime 2016 Member aged 45 41.7 42.1 43.9 44.3 Member aged 65 22.3 22.4 24.4 24.5 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Approximate impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase/decrease by 1.0% Decrease £49.3 million/increase £66.0 million Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.5% Increase £21.4 million/decrease £20.1 million Life expectancy Members assumed to be one year younger than their actual age Increase £10.3 million Amounts recognised in income in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: £ million 2017 2016 Net interest on net defined benefit asset/liability 0.2 0.1 Administration costs incurred during the period 0.8 1.0 Total charge 1.0 1.1 All of the charges for each period presented have been included in total administrative expenses. Regular meetings and corresp ondence on matters concerning the Scheme are shared in an open manner between both parties. Employer contributio ns, except for deficit reduction contributions, ceased in March 2011 when the Scheme closed to future accrual. 5 The registered address of these Companies is Units 1902-1912, 19/F., Eight Commercial Tower, No 8 Sun Yip Street, Chai Wan, H ong Kong. 7 The registered address of this company is Agricultural Develo pment Area, Changle Town, Haimen City, Jiangsu Province, China. 10 The registered address of this company is South Xitai Road, Da Sun Gezhuang Town, Shunyi District, Beijing, China. 17 The registered address of this company is Rong Tai Road, Cr oss-Striats Science & Technology Industry Development Park, Wenji ang District, Chengdu, China. There are no further interest-bearing balanc es and therefore the Company is not exposed to any interest rate risk.