feet of warehousing c1,850 Containers delivered per week 4 Rail connected distribution sites 4 Operating from UK ports 2 Training Academies 02 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Speedy Freight branches iForce sites E-commerce end-to-end service solutions By Our acquisitions Our network and scale has grown. In particular, for retailers the continuing trend of omni-channel retailing requires specialist logistics knowledge and skills. The UK’s fast moving consumer goods market (FMCG), is relatively mature with forecast growth at less than 1% per annum to 2020 9 . We also operate in joint venture arrangements at three sites relating to inspection and preparation of finished vehicles. We are seeing significant growth with customers in the used and ex-hire/ lease car sectors, where additional value- added services generate further revenue. General cargo We provide long-distance Full Truck Load (FTL) transport for a number of major international customers across Europe, including the United Kingdom, Benelux, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Spain and Switzerland. We maximise fleet utilisation by carrying loads for multiple customers in one vehicle and manage movements using state-of-the-art technology to minimise empty miles. This allows for greater flexibility and profitability, which can be passed on to customers in the form of lower charges. This capacity is delivered through a range of transactions, new leases, pre-lets with developers and re-gearing existing sites. The Group’s leasehold properties are held on institutional lease terms at or below market rents. Even with these sites coming online the Group is currently operating at close to full capacity. We invested in MIB specialist equipment and skilled employees to deliver a number of new contract wins. 09 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Governance Strategic report 10 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our acquisitions Our strategy is to supplement organic growth by targeting acquisitions at attractive multiples Since we listed in April 2017, we have successfully completed three major acquisitions*: We have a team with specialist skills that identify acquisition opportunities and complete transactions. Financial performance Eddie Stobart performed strongly in 2017, achieving significant growth and securing a number of new contract wins. Philip H Swatman Chairman 10 April 2018 12 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Chief Executive’s statement “We have made good progress in implementing our strategy of becoming a leading provider of end-to-end supply chain solutions” Alex Laffey Chief Executive Group results Our Group revenues have increased by 9.4% to £623.9 million for the year to 30 November 2017 (2016: £570.2 million). Eddie Stobart focuses on providing cost- effective innovative logistics solutions to our customers across the supply chain. Furthermore, we have integrated our under- performing ports business into the wider transport network in order to improve utilisation and profitability. This has resulted in our customers looking for more than the traditional support from their logistics providers. Our Training Academy has been recognised as a leading facility by customers, suppliers and industry advocates. 2 Underlying EBIT is defined as profit from operating activities before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, Group’s share of profit from equity accounted investees, employee share costs funded by previous parent holding group, investor and management charges and including the gain arising on any lease agreements. They are performing in-line with expectations • Operating profit fell by 1%, principally due to non-recurring IPO costs • Significantly improved financial position with net debt reducing from £165.5m to £109.5m • Final dividend proposed of 4.4 pence per share making a total of 5.8 pence per share for the full year in line with our progressive dividend policy Damien Harte Chief Financial Officer * Non GAAP Alternative Performance Measure (see note 4 on page 61 of the accounts for reconciliation to statutory IFRS measure). Within the 2017 financial year there has been a substantial growth in three of our four market sectors. Due to increased business demand the Company undertook a major redevelopment of our strategically important site at Goresbrook Park, Dagenham, funded by our landlord, which increased the revenue earning capacity by over 100%, added significant additional state-of-the-art warehousing capacity, improved transport operations facilities and enhanced rail connectivity. Our training ranges from one day to 11 weeks with no more than nine trainees per group. In addition to this, we also hold a national annual meeting where all Eddie Stobart driver and warehouse representatives come together. It’s at the heart of what we do, allowing our customers to meet their service commitments” Technology continues to play a critical role in all of today’s advanced supply chain operations, unlocking efficiencies, driving service innovations and underpinning every leading end-to-end supply chain. These solutions are integrated with Eddie Stobart’s own proprietary, in-house developed and controlled software products. We know that fitter, healthier employees are not only happier and more productive, but also suffer fewer work related incidents. * Scope one (direct) GHG emissions are derived from the consumption of gas, oil and vehicle fuel. Picture: Urban double-decker trailer We are committed to running our business in a responsible way Elaine Williams Company Secretary 24 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Armed Forces Covenant Eddie Stobart is committed to the Armed Forces Covenant. We were extremely proud to be awarded our silver status in 2017 for: • Demonstrating support for service personnel issues and employing members of the Armed Forces community • Actively communicating a positive stance to our employees through our HR policies and procedures • Showing flexibility towards annual training and mobilisation commitments of Reservist employees EMPLOYER RECOGNITION SCHEME SILVER AWARD 2017 Proudly supporting those who serve. As one of the country’s most high profile brands playing a key supporting role for UK plc, we’re extremely proud of our northern roots and honoured to be supporting diverse business growth right across the North. We have worked hard to redefine standards in logistics and lay foundations for tomorrow’s supply chain needs through our training programme. Operating environment risk Customer demand for outsourced logistics and warehousing services may change, reflecting the changing behaviours of consumers. There may be changes in the availability of high quality warehouse capacity and other property opportunities to support business growth. This risk is also mitigated by our strategy of building a balanced portfolio across the sectors we operate in. Lack of available cash could result in the Company being unable to meet its financial obligations. We also have a comprehensive suite of health and safety procedures that all new joiners must confirm they will adhere to. There are well-established accident reporting procedures and reviews are undertaken after all significant incidents to ensure our policies have been followed and that we enhance our standards where we can to reduce the risk of future accidents occurring. In addition, Alex also managed T esco’s UK logistics, with over 50,000 store deliveries per week and a £1.6 billion annual cost base. He was previously a partner of KPMG LLP and its predecessor firms from 1992, having joined Peat Marwick Mitchell in 1977. The Audit Committee also has responsibility for oversight of our internal controls and risk management framework. Meetings and attendance The Audit Committee has met four times since it was established in April 2017. Executive Directors have been granted awards under the Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) with a target linked to shareholder value and other members of senior management have been granted awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) with targets linked to Total Shareholder Return and achievements of an EBITDA target. Share incentive Plan (“SIP”) A UK HMRC-approved Share Incentive Plan was established on Admission and a grant of free shares was made to employees in order to ensure employees are incentivised and their interests aligned with those of the Company. Our policy is that opportunities for training, career development and promotion should be available to all employees. We aim to achieve high standards of health and safety management across all our business activities. 37 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Related party transactions Any related party transactions required to be disclosed under the AIM rules are disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements. In arriving at our audit opinion above, the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows: 40 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Eddie Stobart Logistics plc continued The risk Our response Existence, accuracy and presentation of revenue (£623.9m) Refer to page 55 (accounting policy) and page 60 (financial disclosures). Certain material individual transactions arising from these activities are complex and may relate to multiple contracts or documents. • Substantive testing: We substantively tested the expenses allocated to Consolidated Income Statement and to the Share Premium reserve, obtaining supporting evidence for each item selected and determining whether their treatment as share issue or transaction cost was appropriate. Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. Subsequent to initial recognition, these financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. Assets-under-construction amounts related to development projects are presented as a separate asset within Property, Plant and Equipment. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against ‘administration expenses’ in the income statement. Variable consideration can arise as a result of incentives, performance bonuses, penalties or other similar items. Provisions for impairment of receivables are established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due. Analysis of operating segments Road Transport £’000 Contract Logistics and Warehousing £’000 EU Transport £’000 Other Divisions £’000 Year ended 30 November 2017 £’000 Revenues – external customers 414.2 139.5 38.6 31.6 623.9 Adjusted EBITDA 48.5 9.9 1.5 (4.6) 55.3 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 11.7% 7.1% 3.9% (14.6%) 8.9% Road Transport £’000 Contract Logistics and Warehousing £’000 EU Transport £’000 Other Divisions £’000 Year ended 30 November 2016 £’000 Revenues – external customers 415.4 94.5 38.5 21.8 570.2 Adjusted EBITDA 41.4 4.6 2.9 (1.5) 47.4 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 10.0% 4.9% 7.5% (6.9%) 8.3% By geographical segment Year ended 30 November 2017 £’000 Year ended 30 November 2016 £’000 United Kingdom 585.3 510.5 EU 38.6 59.7 Total revenue 623.9 570.2 The revenue from one customer amounted to more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue. For Board reporting purposes the balance sheet is not disaggregated or produced segmentally for the chief operating decision maker, a reconciliation of segment underlying EBITDA to reported profit from operating activities before exceptional items is detailed in note 4. The share of profit from equity accounted investees represents joint ventures which run in collaboration with existing Group businesses. In 2017 due to increased business demand, the Company undertook a major redevelopment of our strategically important site at Goresbrook Park, Dagenham. Employees and Directors continued Key management compensation (including Executive Directors): Year ended 30 November 2017 £’000 Year ended 30 November 2016 £’000 Emoluments, bonus and benefits in kind 1,525 1,113 Pension costs 144 110 Long term incentives payable* – – Total management compensation 1,669 1,223 * Please see note marked(*) on page 69. All employee contracts have been changed to Eddie Stobart terms and conditions, assets are now considered to be fully shared, services are provided centrally and full integration from a previously autonomous organisation into one which is run by a Sector Director has been achieved. 84 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued as at 30 November 2017 25. Contingent Liabilities There is an unlimited bank cross guarantee arrangement between the Company and its fellow subsidiary undertakings. Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 November 2017 90 Eddie Stobart Logistics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1. In testing for impairment of investments in, and amounts due from, subsidiary undertakings, the Directors have made certain assumptions concerning the future development of its subsidiary businesses that are consistent with their annual budgets and forecasts into perpetuity. The Company has issued equity settled share-based payments to certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them. Contingent Liabilities There is an unlimited bank cross guarantee arrangement between the Company and its fellow subsidiary undertakings.