Our rapidly growing Technology Alliance Program, which increasingly positions Blue Prism as the ‘Operating System’ for digital workforce deployments, presents us with further opportunities to develop new revenue streams. ” — Alastair Bathgate Chief Executive Officer Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 COMPANY OVERVIEW PROGRESS, PERFORMANCE, PRODUCTIVITY About Blue Prism The Group’s enterprise-grade software enables the automation of manual, rules-based, administrative processes to create a more agile, cost effective and accurate back-office. Our customers include Aegon, BNY Mellon, Commerzbank, IBM, ING, Maersk, Nokia, Nordea, Procter & Gamble, Raiffeisen Bank, Siemens, Westpac and Zurich. Our latest software (Version 6.0) enables RPA adoption in a way that is far more secure, consistent, reliable and scaleable. Software robots do not get tired or bored, so in terms of pure transactional processing, they achieve far more efficiency during routine, repetitive, rule-based work. Stronger security and compliance Greater accuracy, more granular processing power and reduced dependence on human labour, means Blue Prism’s software robots allow for a much more manageable framework of delivering multiple processes, simultaneously, across the enterprise. As such, risk can be mitigated significantly, whilst security is strengthened from minimising human fraud, error, intrusion and malpractice. We help businesses create a digital workforce that is: Secure User-based permissions Enterprise-wide password vault Scalable Improved control room Cloud & AI enablement Adaptive Multilingual user interface Unprecedented insight Productive Surface automation accelerated Enabling a unified workforce Customers 477 Employees 187 Transactions executed for customers Over 1 bn Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 COMPANY OVERVIEW 04 – 05 Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Shop Direct The advantage of Blue Prism’s RPA technology can be seen in the scale of impact delivered, and value generated, for a major player in the retail sector. As a result, the Company was also able to generate £16m in incremental revenue from just one single process. At Lighthouse Works in Florida – a not-for-profit social enterprise which exists to support people in living, learning and earning with vision loss – Blue Prism software robots are helping employees complete tasks such as scheduling, billing and claims processing, thereby expanding the scope of jobs that visually challenged workers can complete. Turnaround time has been reduced by an average of 62 per cent, including reducing one particular process from 10 days to 24 hours while also improving error rates. As today’s major organisations look to find new ways of interacting with their customers, it is becoming clear that RPA can become a transformational enabler to the digital enterprise and not just a tactical automation tool focused on cost reduction. Against that competition, Blue Prism continues to differentiate on enterprise scale, security, performance and adaptability. • Certified reference architectures for all the main cloud vendors (Microsoft, Amazon, Google, IBM) to offer rapid scale-out and Artificial Intelligence Capabilities. • An improved Control Room giving real time visibility of robot activity, health and digital workforce achievements. In the period, we have seen a significant increase in sales, a substantial growth of our customer base and further strengthening of our market- leading position whilst managing the cost base and cash flow with real discipline. We have been working on rolling this out into the indirect model with early signs of success. Turnaround time has been reduced by an average of 62 per cent, including reducing one particular process from 10 days to 24 hours while also improving error rates. Using Blue Prism enabled the organisation to improve customer experience and reduce costs by eliminating an onerous, lengthy re-underwriting backlog. It took just 10 months to put the robotic operating model in place, and since deployment Blue Prism RPA has resulted in a $500,000 one-time cost avoidance and delivered more than $3m savings from run rate cost reductions annually. A leading global payments services provider – which in 2016 completed 791m transactions for its consumer and business clients – needed to improve customer experience whilst expanding automation capabilities throughout the organisation. As a result, the Company was also able to generate £16m in incremental revenue from just one single process. At Lighthouse Works in Florida – a not-for-profit social enterprise which exists to support people in living, learning and earning with vision loss – Blue Prism software robots are helping employees complete tasks such as scheduling, billing and claims processing, thereby expanding the scope of jobs that visually challenged workers can complete. US customers include BNY Mellon, Western Union, Pfizer, AIG, Fannie Mae, Walgreens and IBM. This team now represents c.35 per cent of the Group’s total global employee base. EAST TO WEST COVERAGE Chicago New York Miami San Francisco Austin HQ and Tech Hub KEY US PARTNERS New customers signed 109 New employees 39 Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED REINFORCING THE GROUP’S MARKET LEADERSHIP TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF RPA ADOPTION The launch of Version 6, billed as the “Operating System” edition of our software, has helped to build on Blue Prism’s profile as a thought leader in the RPA market. We have already announced TAP collaborations with partners including Microsoft, Appian, Captricity, and IBM. FY2018 will see us invest in further commercialisation and extension of the Technology Alliance Program. Given that most customers buy on a “land and expand” strategy, this represents a meaningful sales opportunity for us over the medium term providing we can continue to ensure that customers get real value from their use of the software. Existing customers also continued to increase their adoption of our product at a healthy rate. We promote the ROM vigorously and have created a full partner enablement programme so that our partners may integrate it into their wider methodologies. In particular, we have strengthened the management team with key appointments including Shail Khiyara, Chief Marketing Officer; Pat Geary who stepped into the newly-created role of Chief Evangelist; and Nicola Bergstrom who joined Blue Prism to lead Human Resources. Our Public Company status and employee share ownership schemes are enabling us to attract high quality talent. Alastair Bathgate Chief Executive Officer Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL REVIEW Introduction The financial results for 2017 reflect a year of strong organic growth and greater global reach through our partner network. There can be no guarantee that these Partners sell the Group’s software robots to their end-customers. These could result in the Group’s customers being vulnerable to security attacks or adverse performance. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent the Group’s security measures could, among other things, misappropriate proprietary information, interrupt the Group’s operations or expose customers to computer viruses or other disruptions. He has a PhD from University College London and was co- founder of UCL’s Intelligent Systems Lab. He co-founded the Group in 2001 alongside David Moss, having previously spent 8 years in process improvement at Bradford & Bingley Building Society and 4 years delivering enterprise software solutions to major customers such as Barclays Bank at Lynx Financial Systems. Prior to Blue Prism, Dave spent 5 years working for Lynx Financial Systems as a Senior Software Designer, providing packaged and bespoke solutions to major names in Financial Services such as Barclays Bank, Nationwide Building Society and Transamerica Commercial Finance. Pat’s previous experience included international corporate marketing roles at Searchspace, Sequent Computer Corp and DEC. Prior to joining Blue Prism, Neil had over 20 years’ experience in the successful delivery of enterprise software to both the public sector and blue-chip companies such as Lloyds Banking group, Barclays Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland. Alex spent the majority of his consulting career delivering Target Operating Model design, process improvement and business transformation programmes for Financial Services clients. Having begun his legal career at global law firm Allen & Overy, he has since worked in a variety of in-house legal roles with General Electric, ADP and, most recently, automotive retail software specialist CDK Global. Executive Directors or other members of the management team may be invited to attend meetings. No Director will be involved in any decision as to his or her own remuneration. Post balance sheet events The Group is looking to place approximately £40m (before transaction fees) by way of a primary fundraising. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Inputs into this calculation have been tested substantively including selecting a sample of items and tracing to source documentation such as customer contracts. Nicole Martin (Senior Statutory Auditor) For and on behalf of BDO LLP , Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 January 2018 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127). Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Note 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 Revenue 4 24,498 9,644 Cost of sales 5 (15) (67) Gross profit 24,483 9,577 Operating expense (34,031) (14,851) Operating expenses before share-based payments, IPO expenses and foreign exchange gains 6 (32,862) (14,309) Share-based payments (1,131) (362) IPO expenses – (502) Foreign exchange gains (38) 322 Operating expenses (34,031) (14,851) Operating loss (9,548) (5,274) Interest received on bank deposits 3 25 Loss before tax (9,545) (5,249) Tax expense 8 (325) (69) Loss from operations (9,870) (5,318) Other comprehensive income Exchange gains on translation of foreign operations 314 – Total other comprehensive income 314 – Total comprehensive loss for the year (9,556) (5,318) Basic and diluted loss per share attributable to shareholders (p) 9 (15.30) (10.53) The notes on pages 38 to 53 form part of these financial statements. Changes in accounting policies a) New standards, interpretations and amendments effective from 1 November 2016 There were no new standards or interpretations effective for the first time for periods beginning on or after 1 November 2016. b) New standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective The following new IASB standards, interpretations and amendments, which are not yet effective and have not been adopted early in these financial statements, may have a material impact on these financial statements: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. Determining the transaction price There is a requirement to determine the stand alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation, such that this revenue can be recognised as each performance obligation is met. Consideration of financing Blue Prism usually receives payment for its services annually in advance. Costs of obtaining contracts Sales commission Currently Blue Prism expenses all commissions to the P&L as they are incurred. Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in profit or loss. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method other than those categorised as fair value through income statement. Any future capitalised development expenditure will be amortised on a straight-line method when the services are ready for sale or use. There have been no substantive changes in the Group’s exposure to financial instrument risks, its objectives, policies and processes for managing those risks or the methods used to measure them from previous periods unless otherwise stated in this note. The Group is not exposed to any externally imposed capital requirements and has no borrowings. It is Group policy to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering contracts. For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with minimum rating “A” are accepted. 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 Licences 22,321 8,304 Professional services, training and other 2,177 1,340 24,498 9,644 There are no customers who generate 10% or more of the Group’s revenues. The Employee Share Plan options for staff vest over a 3-year period, one third each year. Blue Prism Limited purchased £7,712 (2016: £nil) of services from NCC Group, for whom Chris Batterham is a Non-Executive Director. 20 Post balance sheet events The Group is looking to place approximately £40m (before transaction fees) by way of a primary fundraising. Subsequent investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any adjustments for impairment. The Company is not exposed to any externally imposed capital requirements and has no borrowings. The following balances are due to wholly-owned subsidiaries at the period end: 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 Blue Prism Limited 833 801 Blue Prism Software Inc. 50 2 883 803 During the year, the Company had the following expenses recharged from/(to) wholly-owned subsidiaries as follows: 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 Blue Prism Limited 32 801 Blue Prism Software Inc. 48 2 80 803 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED AT 31 OCTOBER 2017 Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 58 – 59 Company number 09759493 Directors Name Position Jason Kingdon Chairman Alastair Bathgate CEO & Founder Gary Johnson CFO Ken Lever Non-Executive Director Chris Batterham Non-Executive Director Charmaine Eggberry Non-Executive Director Company Secretary John Warrick Registered office Centrix House Crow Lane East Newton-le-Willows WA12 9UY Auditors BDO LLP 55 Baker Street London W1U 7EU Registrars Link Market Services Ltd The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Financial PR FTI Consulting LLP 200 Aldersgate Aldersgate Street London EC1A 4HD Nominated adviser and broker Investec Bank plc 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP COMPANY INFORMATION Blue Prism Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 NOTES CENTRIX HOUSE CROW LANE EAST NEWTON-LE-WILLOWS WA12 9UY T: 0870 879 3000 W: BLUEPRISM.COM BLUE PRISM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017