OVERVIEW THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2 QUALITY We are passionate travel experts & have been creating great holiday memories since 1841. CARE CONTACT O U R F O C U S HOLIDAYS SERVICES PARTNERSHIPS OPER ATIONAL EFFICIENCIES AND STREAMLINED ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE O U R C O R E S T R A T E G Y Page 18 Page 20 Page 22 Page 28 Page 29 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PROGRESS IN 2017 > 24-hour quality promise > In-resort resolution for carefree holidays > Expert crisis management > High health & safety standards > Group Net Promoter Score up by nine points since 2015 > 24-Hour Hotel Satisfaction Promise extended to reach 80% of sun & beach customers in core hotels > Annual health and safety audits on all core hotels > Direct personal engagement > Web penetration >Seamless CRM >Rich content > Controlled distribution now 68% > Webshare up 3 percentage points to 46% > UK web sales up 27% and Germany up 22% > 1.7 million companion app downloads > Richer online content for greater inspiration with 112,000 new images, 1,200 new room plans and 520 new hotel videos > Thomas Cook Hotels & Resorts for unique experience > Selected high-quality partner hotels >Own Airline > Own-brand hotels sales up 10% for the summer > Moving towards fewer, better quality differentiated hotels – a further 310 removed for summer 2018 > Airline seat-only sales up by 16% > Personalised added-extras & ancillaries > Thomas Cook Money > Ancillary sales up a further 10%, reflecting more personalised offers > Launch of Thomas Cook Money to expand financial services offering > Thomas Cook China with Fosun >Strategic partnerships > Leveraging our brand > Strong first year for Thomas Cook China, growth targets on track > Completed complementary hotel strategy with Expedia alliance and Webjet partnership See more on page 30 THE RESULT Increasing customer loyalty and attracting new customers OUR VISION To be the most loved holiday company OUR CUSTOMER CHANNELS OUR AIRLINE ADDED-VA V V LUE SERVICES OUR OWN-BRAND AND SELECTED PA P P RTNER HOTELS STRAT A A EGIC PA P P RTNERSHIPS OUR PA P P RTNER AIRLINES IN-DESTINAT A A ION MANAGEMENT AND CUSTOMER RELAT A A IONS OUR COMPLEMENTA T T RY HOTEL PA P P RTNERS STRATEGIC REPORT THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6 WITH A BUSINESS MODEL FOCUSED ON THE CUSTOMER JOURNEY Our business model reflects the customer journey from dream to experience. This approach means we can focus on creating maximum value in the holidays to our directly-contracted own-brand and selected partner hotels. Most importantly, we know that customers’ experience of their holidays with Thomas Cook is getting better all the time. This has already been signed by seven major travel companies in a move that we believe will promote greater collaboration to achieve practical change for the benefit of all customers. Over the last four years, and in a very competitive market, we’ve transformed it from four essentially separate airlines whose primary task was to transport our tour operator customers, to one airline group with an increasingly successful seat- only business, particularly on long-haul routes, and its own distribution channels. We have now formalised the work Management has undertaken to create one Group airline, by separating its reporting and legal structure. This approach is complemented by a series of partnerships which enable us to streamline our operations, while also tapping into opportunities for growth. New innovations for summer 2018 include the ability to pre-book a specific hotel room based on detailed floor plans and imagery. This includes developing rich, inspirational content that stands out in a crowded online marketplace and will grab customers’ attention to drive higher conversion. This focus on improved customer contact has increased direct distribution across the Group by one percentage point to 68 per cent. Second, we took the decision to refocus our store network into two key formats to make sure we’re offering our customers the best of a 21st Century travel company; larger stores in higher footfall areas like shopping centres and retail parks, and smaller stores in traditional high street locations. The staff are attentive yet discreet, guided by a service culture that encourages guests to determine their own holiday rhythm. The rooms themselves were all created as private sanctuaries, focusing on stylish simplicity, many with their own or shared pools. Next year we open our third Casa Cook in Chania, Crete – a pure family concept that is very different to what people might expect. Both Thomas Cook and Fosun remain fully committed to supporting the future growth of our joint venture business in China. The ambition is to make China a sizeable source market for Thomas Cook Group, comparable, over time, with our more mature markets in Europe. See Our Airline section on page 26 GREATER OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES £35m 101 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY FINANCIAL SHARED SERVICE CENTRE IN PALMA We knew there was an opportunity to bring our finance shared service centres together from across the Group in a way which would not only significantly reduce cost but would also mean we can provide a greater consistency of quality to all parts of the business. It is also the Group’s most popular holiday destination, meaning we had a sizeable existing presence and infrastructure on which to build. Underlying EPS (iii) is defined as earnings before separately disclosed items after a national tax charge divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares. From that premise came a simple rule – if an animal attraction is found not to be fully compliant with the ABTA Global Welfare Guidance for Animals in Tourism, Thomas Cook won’t sell it. Seven key projects were selected, including a continued drive to reduce weight on board, improve flight planning processes and optimise routing. Our upgraded aircraft continue to deliver greater comfort and a superior experience for passengers, whilst contributing toward improved efficiency. A key challenge is finding good-quality staff who are able to deliver high-quality service while promoting sustainability within our hotels. The new values and behaviours were introduced as criteria for our Customer Heroes recognition programme, which we continued this year. Nominated by colleagues or managers, we identify customer heroes in each market and hold local recognition events to celebrate the finalists. Building an efficient organisational structure is a key strategic objective and we are working across the Group to better align structures. OVERVIEW The comments below are based on underlying like-for-like comparisons unless otherwise stated, as Management believes this provides a clearer view of Group’s year-on-year progression. PERFORMANCE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET As the Group’s Tour Operator and Airline activities are integrated to varying degrees in each of our source markets, we believe that it is helpful to provide supplementary information by geographic source market, consistent with how the Group has reported in previous years. As previously announced, from November 2017, our Belgian airline business transferred to Brussels Airlines such that it is no longer part of the Group. A small portion of the Group’s cash is restricted in overseas jurisdictions primarily due to legal or regulatory requirements. Where appropriate, significant risks identified at business unit level are escalated and discussed during the Executive Committee risk review. This includes all relevant principal risks that could threaten Thomas Cook’s business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. We are currently focused on enhancing our policies and procedures by finding best practice from each of the markets in order to define a common Group standard. As such, Bill’s appointment will ensure that we continue on our journey with a CFO who is perfectly positioned to keep driving the business forward in achieving its strategic goals. The Group Company Secretary put in place an annual agenda plan and set aside more time for Nominations Committee meetings. Group Finance ensure that agreed actions are being implemented to support a programme of maintaining and improving internal controls. The Directors may decline to register any person as a Shareholder if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming. As described on page 39, we are committed to creating an environment in which employees from all backgrounds can reach their full potential. Strong customer demand for our improved holiday offering across all source markets delivered a Group underlying EBIT of £330 million. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Warren Tucker OTHER MEMBERS Dawn Airey, Annet Aris, Emre Berkin (until 1 October 2017), Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson (from 21 September 2017) and Lesley Knox. This means that all long-term incentive plans at Thomas Cook have a five-year time horizon in line with corporate governance guidelines and Shareholder expectations. REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN FY17 Short-term incentives Progress has been made this year to deliver Group underlying EBIT growth, and strong cash flow management. For FY18, there will be full retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against these in next year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report. Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and/or the Executive Director’s legal and/ or professional advice fees in connection with their cessation of office or employment Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment. The SSIP was put in place to cater for exceptional circumstances that would warrant an alternative long term incentive plan. Long-Term Incentive Plan Target Disclosure (Remuneration Report Resolution) Some Shareholders wanted to see EPS targets under the PSP disclosed prospectively. We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 28 locations, which covered 86% of the Group’s revenue. Separately disclosed items are not defined by IFRS and therefore considerable judgement is required in determining the appropriateness of such classification. Changes to these assumptions or adverse performance could have a significant impact on the available headroom and any impairment that may be required. We have considered the recognition period over which deferred tax assets will be recovered and concluded they were reasonable. Based on this understanding, we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above. Management identified several adjustments that, in their opinion should be applied to Thomas Cook’s financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016. IFRS 9 is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018, and therefore will be applied by the Group in fiscal year 2019. The leasing standard is expected to have a material impact on net debt, gross assets, profit from operations and interest. IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, and therefore will be applied by the Group in fiscal year 2020. Average exchange rates are used to translate the results of all subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that have a functional currency other than Sterling. The Group records revenue on a net basis after deducting trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and compensation vouchers granted to customers. Finance related charges The Group has provisions for future liabilities arising from separately disclosed circumstances, primarily deferred acquisition consideration. Cash flow forecasts for years beyond the four-year plan are extrapolated at an estimated average long-term nominal growth rate of 2%. The Group’s current policy is that deposits and prepayments will normally be made for periods of up to two years in advance. The leverage covenant is a measure of pre-exceptional earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and aircraft operating lease rentals compared to net debt. The different methods are defined as follows: Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. As at 30 September 2017, the Group had in place currency hedging derivative financial instruments with a maximum maturity of May 2019 (2016: February 2018). Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited hold shares in connection with the Thomas Cook Group plc Buy As You Earn Scheme. 166 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 PRIOR YEAR RESTATEMENTS CONTINUED Impact on statement of profit or loss – increase/(decrease) in profit for 30 September 2016 Underlying EBIT £m Separately disclosed Items £m Statutory profit £m Sale of goods (2) – (2) Operating expenses (4) (2) (6) Net impact on profit for the year (6) (2) (8) Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent (8) Non-controlling interests – (8) Impact on basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) – increase/(decrease) in EPS Basic and diluted EPS (0.5)pence 34 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS As previously announced, from November 2017, our Belgian airline business transferred to Brussels Airlines such that it is no longer part of the Group. 16 OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS At the balance sheet date, the Company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments, related to property, under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 £m 2016 £m Within one year 1 1 Later than one year and less than five years 4 3 After five years 7 1 12 5 17 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES At 30 September 2017, the Company had contingent liabilities in respect of counter-guarantees for bank funding, letters of credit and guarantees of amounts owed by subsidiaries amounting to £820m (2016: £669m). The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis. Replacement Thomas Cook Group plc share certificates were sent to Shareholders, who held shares in certificated form, on or around 19 June 2007. This report is printed on Edixion Offset, produced at a mill certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental management standards.