Certain figures contained in this document, including financial information, may have been subject to rounding adjustments and foreign exchange conversions. Our significant scale 2.7m customers £32bn loans £28bn deposits 169 retail branches Strategic report Governance Financial results Risk report Financial statements Additional information 3 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2017 highlights Delivering sustainable customer growth +7.5% mortgage lending annual growth +5.9% SME core lending annual growth Stable net interest margin (NIM) 2.27% Improving efficiency 7.4% reduction in underlying costs Positive jaws First statutory profit in over 5 years £182m statutory profit Strongly capitalised 12.4% Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio Improving returns 7.5% underlying Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) Inaugural dividend recommended by the Board 1.0 pence per share Note: the key performance indicators (KPIs) used by management in monitoring the Group’s performance and reflected throughout this section are determined on a combination of bases (including statutory, regulatory and alternative performance measures), as detailed in the Glossary on page 253. The continued delivery of our strategy should help us to build on this firm foundation as we move forward. I would also like to personally thank Richard Gregory who left the Board in January for his contribution over many years. We have established a set of capabilities that gives us significant confidence in our ability to execute, should such inorganic opportunities arise. We are well capitalised, have a high-quality loan book and prudent risk appetite, along with powerful, established local brands. Buy or improve your business premises with a commercial mortgage from Clydesdale and Y orkshire Bank when you borrow over £25,000. The PRA has also finalised its rules on ensuring banks’ critical shared services are able to continue operating while in resolution. This aligns with the behavioural expectations for all colleagues which form a core part of our performance management approach. Overall customer deposit balances including current accounts increased by 2.5% or £0.7bn in the year as part of a balanced approach to funding our loan growth. We continue to have a diverse wholesale funding strategy which includes balances secured on our high-quality mortgage book and deposits with other banks. Left: In the B app, customers can set up and name ‘savings pots’ making it easier to put money aside regularly. Other B smart tools, such as the sweep facility and budgets, have also been designed to help make saving simpler. Successful IRB accreditation should enable CYBG to be more competitive in other areas of the mortgage market, while maintaining a healthy risk position. It’s therefore vital that we are supporting businesses offering the right support and finance to ensure their success. We also understand that customers can become vulnerable at any point in their lives and as a result may need our support. This site is increasingly used for two-way engagement through the use of polls, discussion threads and invitations to get involved in activities. Through this audit we review the gender distribution of performance, base pay, allowances and bonuses paid to our staff. Our gender pay gap is largely driven by the fact that we have more men than women in senior roles. This is expressed through a series of community partnerships and initiatives that deliver our ‘We care about here’ ethos. This growth more than offset the managed reduction in volumes of variable rate savings accounts as we rationalised and repriced our ISA portfolio. Variable rate loans continue to reduce as although these products remain on sale, they are not actively promoted or targeted. The Board also spent time hearing about colleague feedback from our annual MyVoice survey which highlighted colleagues’ commitment to deliver a strong customer-focused culture. Teresa has a breadth of experience gained from executive leadership roles with BT Mobile, Sears plc, Eagle Star/Zurich Financial Services, Cable & Wireless, Reality & Accenture. Teresa has a breadth of experience gained from executive leadership roles with BT Mobile, Sears plc, Eagle Star/Zurich Financial Services, Cable & Wireless, Reality & Accenture. He was a former Chief Executive Officer of Standard Bank International with responsibility for operations in the UK, Europe, Latin America and Asia. They also have accountability for delivering against the initiatives designed to underpin our strategic priorities of capital optimisation, improving efficiency and driving sustainable customer growth. In particular, the Committee has assessed how best it can support a strong and effective risk culture which drives customer centricity. Only one Executive Director was a member of the Group’s defined benefit scheme during 2017 and they ceased to accrue benefits from 31 July 2017 in line with other colleagues. Operation The Group provides a range of benefits which can include private medical insurance, health assessments, life assurance and car allowance/car. Awards will be funded from a bonus pool reflecting the same financial and non-financial measures that apply to Executive Directors. Awards will vest a minimum of three years after being awarded, or longer, for example where required by the PRA Remuneration Code. Awards remain subject to their existing terms and performance conditions, with service requirements based on employment by Clydesdale Bank PLC. Confidentiality Six-month post-termination restrictive covenants Executive Directors are subject to a confidentiality undertaking without limitation in time, as well as to six-month post-termination restrictive covenants covering: non-competition; non-solicitation of and non- dealing with clients; non-interference with suppliers or contractors and non-solicitation of colleagues. Unless determined otherwise, an Executive Director will be treated as a good leaver in cases where their employment ends due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, or the company being transferred out of the CYBG Group and any other reason (except for dishonesty, fraud, misconduct or dismissal). Awards will vest a minimum of three years after being awarded, or longer where required by the PRA Remuneration Code. Bands have been converted using a rate of 1 GBP = 1.08401 EUR, consistent with the European Commission’s currency converter for September 2017. The Group has share schemes under which change of control may apply, albeit this is not considered to be significant. The Group’s credit portfolios will continue to be monitored closely with appetite adjusted where appropriate and risk sensitivity analysis conducted on an ongoing basis. Master netting arrangements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis. This system assigns an indication of the PD for each customer and can be broadly mapped to external agencies rating scales. All lending activities are supported by an appropriate form of valuation using either professional or indexed (subject to policy rules and confidence levels) valuations. Collateral for the majority of commercial loans comprises first legal charges over freehold or long leasehold property (including formal Companies House registration where appropriate). Corporates is the largest sector utilising other risk mitigation techniques, with all three methods utilised dependent on credit quality. Customers are actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those at other lenders, that require restructuring. When all other avenues of resolution including forbearance have been explored, the Group will take steps to repossess and sell underlying collateral. Credit risk categorisation Description Neither past due nor impaired Loans that are not in arrears and where there is no objective evidence of impairment. This confirmed that banks with total assets of less than £175bn (which includes the Group) will be subject to a 0% SRB. CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 164 Risk report Balance sheet and prudential regulation risks Encumbered assets by asset category Examples of reasons for asset encumbrance include, among others, supporting the Group’s secured funding programmes to provide stable term funding to the Group, use of assets as collateral for payments systems in order to support customer’s transactional activity, and providing security for the Group’s issuance of Scottish bank notes. There continues to be a great deal of uncertainty and significant judgement is required in determining the quantum of conduct risk-related liabilities with note 3.14 reflecting the Group’s current position in relation to redress provisions for PPI, interest rate hedging products (IRHPs) and other smaller historic conduct matters. Account opening pass rates are overseen as part of a regular process undertaken by financial crime risk and reported monthly. Mitigation measures CYBG was divested from NAB and listed in February 2016, but strategic changes necessary for success when independent were assessed over a prolonged prior period. We communicated to the Audit Committee that provisions for other conduct related matters, had been determined based on appropriate evidence and were fairly stated at 30 September 2017. We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our previous experience as auditors of the Group, from which we concluded that there is a lower expectation of material financial statement inaccuracies due to the effective control environment and only minor audit differences resulting from our prior and current year work. – Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above. The new interpretation provides requirements on which exchange rate to use in reporting foreign currency transactions (such as revenue transactions) when payment is made or received in advance; and – IFRIC interpretation 23: ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’ (2) , issued June 2017 and effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. It is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019, and will be adopted by the Group with effect from 1 October 2019. These include judgements that reflect elements which are not sufficiently sensitive to the current economic conditions, model risk reserves that are held to cover against a range of potential model limitations, and judgements made in respect of potential recoveries for specific provisions which also involve customer and economic specific conditions. Capitalised computer software costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives, usually between three and 10 years. There are similar uncertainties and judgements for other conduct risk related matters, however the level of liability is materially lower. As such, the factors discussed above mean there is a risk that existing provisions for PPI customer redress may not cover all potential costs. This means that no single factor is likely to move independently of others, however, the sensitivities disclosed above assume all other assumptions remain unchanged. No reimbursement income or receivable is recognised on the consolidated balance sheet in relation to contingent liabilities for Relevant Conduct Matters. It closed the Scheme to new members in 2004 and since April 2006 has determined benefits accruing on a career average revalued earnings basis. Contractual cash flows are then adjusted for expected credit losses and expectations of customer behaviour based on observed historic data. CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 238 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Section 5: Other notes continued 5.1 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Operating lease commitments 2017 £m 2016 £m Leases as lessor Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are: Within 1 year 1 2 Between 1 year and 5 years 4 4 Over 5 years – 1 5 7 Leases as lessee Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are: Within 1 year 30 29 Between 1 year and 5 years 100 94 Over 5 years 137 117 267 240 Other contingent liabilities Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) The FSCS provides compensation to depositors in the event that a financial institution is unable to repay amounts due. CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 239 Strategic report Governance Financial results Risk report Financial statements Additional information 5.2 Notes to the statement of cash flows 2017 £m 2016 £m Adjustments included in profit before tax Interest receivable (1,075) (1,101) Interest payable 231 295 Depreciation and amortisation (note 2.4) 87 88 Net gain on capital and debt restructure – (1) Transfer from cash flow hedge reserve – 1 Derivative financial instruments fair value movements (6) (10) Impairment losses on credit exposures (note 3.6) 48 39 Impairment losses on software (note 2.4) – 45 Fair value movement on investment properties 1 1 Equity based compensation 6 – Gain on disposal of VocaLink (20) – (728) (643) Changes in operating assets Net (increase)/decrease in: Balances with supervisory central banks (1) 1 Due from other banks (221) (826) Derivative financial instruments 280 (63) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 237 346 Loans and advances to customers (2,140) (1,758) Other assets (12) 15 (1,857) (2,285) Changes in operating liabilities Net increase/(decrease) in: Due to other banks 608 960 Derivative financial instruments (221) 60 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (21) (19) Due to customers 699 672 Provisions for liabilities and charges (298) (154) Defined benefit pension obligations (128) (52) Other liabilities 280 120 919 1,587 For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balances with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition. It assesses whether the bank has sufficient liquid assets to withstand a short-term liquidity stress based on cash outflow assumptions provided by regulators. CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 258 Term Definition Structured entities (SE) An entity created to accomplish a narrow well-defined objective (e.g. securitisation of financial assets). LSE London Stock Exchange LTIP Long term incentive plan LTV Loan to value MREL Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MRT Material Risk Takers NAB National Australia Bank NIM Net interest margin NPS Net promoter score NSFR Net stable funding ratio OLAR Overall liquidity adequacy rule PBT Profit before tax PCA Personal current accounts PD Probability of Default PPI Payment protection insurance PRA Prudential Regulation Authority RAS Risk Appetite Statement RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities RMF Risk Management Framework RoTE Return on Tangible Equity RPI Retail Price Index RWA Risk weighted assets SME Small or medium sized enterprises SRB Systemic Risk Buffer TCC Transactional Credit Committee TFS Term Funding Scheme TNAV Tangible net asset value TSA Transitional Services Agreements VaR Value at risk CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 260 Additional information Country by country reporting The Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions that are within the scope of the European Union’s Capital Requirements Directive (CRD IV).