countryside has delivered another year of significant progress completing 3,389 homes while maintaining a strong balance sheet and with excellent visibility over our future growth ambitions. a search for richard’s successor is well under way and an announcement of the appointment will be made in due course. additionally, as 73 per cent of this land is controlled via options or conditional contracts, it ensures both balance sheet efficiency and flexibility through the cycle. in addition, we were presented with a further nine awards during the year for work at acton gardens (london), abode (cambridge), woolley hall (berkshire) and englemere (ascot). national house building council (“nhbc”) reportable items were 0.21 per home (2016: 0.23), which was again significantly ahead of the industry benchmark. ian sutcliffe group chief executive 21 november 2017 £242.4m of reservations in our private forward order book 1. on a reported basis, revenue increased 26 per cent to £845.8m (2016: £671.3m). accident incident rate (“air”) 220 (28)% 220 305 265 17 16 15 definition the percentage of customers returning an nhbc post-completion customer care survey who would recommend countryside to a friend. strategy our partnerships division specialises in medium to large-scale urban regeneration of public sector land delivering much needed quality housing. it delivers a resilient, low-risk, low-capital model developing urban regeneration in partnership with public sector landowners, such as local authorities and housing associations. these projects were awarded to countryside as a result of our proven track record in delivering complex, multi-phase schemes alongside design excellence. “regeneration is a complicated process but it can be made easier when working with an organisation such as countryside. tucked away on its own purpose-built road and with no other residential schemes close by, st luke’s park is more than just a collection of new homes. in 2017 we ran the group’s second all-employee survey, and once again over 80 per cent of our people responded. we fully complied with investigations into these matters by the relevant enforcing authorities and resolved both issues to their satisfaction. this section describes how these risks are identified, managed and mitigated appropriately in order to deliver the group’s strategic objectives. following that she spent two years as chief executive of lodestone capital limited, a business advising on operational real estate assets. from 2007 until retiring in 2016 richard was group finance director of carillion plc, the integrated support services and construction business. david howell, our chairman, and richard adam are available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels. each director provides the company secretary with information regarding any actual or potential interests that may conflict with those of countryside, such as other directorships, and any other potential interests that each thinks may cause a conflict requiring prior board authorisation on a semi-annual basis. the committee also ensured that recommendations for internal control improvements were being implemented by management on a timely basis. following this review no significant weaknesses or failings were identified and noted improvement areas are being addressed by management. the nomination committee recognises that diversity, in all its dimensions, across an organisation, including at board level, is important to support innovation, strategic development and operational efficiency. the nomination committee will consider candidates for appointment as non-executive directors from a wider pool, including those with limited (or no) listed company experience. committee attendance the number of remuneration committee meetings attended by each member during the 2017 financial year is as follows: remuneration committee overall attendance number of meetings held 4 amanda burton 4/4 100% david howell 4/4 100% sally morgan 4/4 100% richard adam 4/4 100% the group delivered another year of strong growth in both divisions with total completions up 28 per cent to 3,389 as our partnerships business continued to deliver on its new business delivery and we achieved scale in housebuilding. long t erm incentive plan (“ltip”) awards were granted in december 2016, subject to performance against stretching targets, being relative total shareholder return (“tsr”), roce and tnav. other than where there is a change of role or responsibility, any increases will normally be only for inflation and/or in line with the wider workforce. targets are set on a sliding scale with no more than 25 per cent of each element vesting at threshold performance. other than where there is a change of role or responsibility, any increases will normally be only for inflation and/or in line with the wider workforce. targets are set on a sliding scale with no more than 25 per cent of each element vesting at threshold performance. in exceptional circumstances, fees may also be paid for additional time spent on the company’s business outside of normal duties. ian sutcliffe served as a non-executive director of ashtead group plc during the year and received £60,000 for his services (2016: £60,000). the metrics and their weightings for 2018 are as follows: metric % of maximum bonus group adjusted operating profit 60 group adjusted operating margin 20 return on capital employed 20 note: details of the targets for each metric are commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed prospectively. group management has established internal controls to review and ensure the appropriateness of estimates made on an individual development or contract basis. this inventory provision may be reversed in future periods when there is evidence of improved selling prices or reduced expenditure forecast on a development. these are reviewed for impairment at such time as there is a change in circumstances by which the carrying value may no longer be recoverable. forecast revenue is based on a board-approved five-year plan which takes into account current market trends and the group’s growth plans. the different levels have been defined as follows: level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. t echniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, have been used to determine fair value for the level 3 financial instruments. the fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. this risk arises from bank loans that are drawn under the group’s loan facilities with variable interest rates based upon uk libor.