these applications may use fibre simply as the communication medium for speed, lack of ignition sources, or weight. our sectors and applications image courtesy of esa image courtesy of esa gooch & housego plc annual report 2017 | 09 sectors and applica tions life sciences g&h serves the life sciences markets with photonics engineering solutions from across the company’s technology portfolio. stingray was a particularly significant acquisition as it provides g&h with advanced optical systems design capabilities for harsh and demanding applications. their product range is focused on laboratory, ground based, airborne, unmanned aerial vehicles (‘uavs”) and space applications for key us defence customers. we also have a number of r&d collaborations with medical diagnostic companies in cardiovascular and cancer detection. we acquired usa based stingray optics llc in february 2017, which has integrated well into the wider organisation and performed strongly. we believe the introduction of three well defined and focused manufacturing centres will provide a scalable platform for enhanced lean manufacturing practice these strategic initiatives combined with a record year end order book mean the board remains confident that g&h is well positioned to deliver further progress in fy 2018 and beyond mark webster chief executive officer 28 november 2017 chief executive officer’s statement gooch & housego plc 14 | annual report 2017 applications, products and markets industrial lasers for materials processing applications. a move towards new laser enabled production techniques has driven strong growth in the microelectronic materials processing end market. g&h provides system level products for harsh environments, to an impressive list of blue chip defence companies. gooch & housego provides a family of fibre optic products in this market, ranging from discrete components to full optical systems. this market grew in 2017 and we continue to work on the next generation of products with key customers. revenue from the group’s industrial laser business segment grew strongly, driven by high demand for precision lasers used in microelectronic manufacturing. financial and operating review gooch & housego plc 26 | annual report 2017 stra tegic report strategy overview stra tegies diversification to develop, through r&d and acquisition, a presence in new markets that offer the potential for significant growth as a result of their adoption of photonic technology, while also reducing our exposure to cyclicality in any particular sector. dr peter bordui (appointed february 2012) peter bordui has thirty years’ experience in the photonics industry in senior leadership roles within bookham, newfocus, jdsu and crystal technology (at the time a subsidiary of siemens) and has held a number of additional non-executive director roles. all balances not immediately required for group operations are placed on short-term deposit with leading international highly rated financial institutions. in line with professional standards, the company’s external auditor (pwc llp) has a policy of rotating engagement partners every five years. the group’s market capitalisation has increased threefold in less than five years, during which time there have also been significant changes to governance expectations. • additional procedures were also performed at a group level over centralised processes and functions, including the audit of consolidation journals. we have reviewed the available information and based on our work consider that management’s judgment is reasonable. in addition, procedures were performed at a group level over centralised processes and functions, including the audit of consolidation journals. impairment of non-financial assets the group assesses at each balance sheet date whether an asset may be impaired. they are included in current assets, except those with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date. the board’s policy on these risks is set out in note 5. operations are financed through a mixture of retained profits, cash reserves, bank borrowings and finance leases.