ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 2017** 2016 2015 2014 2013 2,180 2,086 2,101 1,970 1,895 2017** 2016 2015 2014 2013 314 318 328 313 310 2017** 2016 2015 2014 2013 34.9 34.9 35.7 32.6 32.2 Strategic report 1 Welcome to Mitchells & Butlers 10 Chairman’s statement 12 Mitchells & Butlers at a glance 14 Chief Executive’s business review 18 Our markets 20 Our business model 22 Our strategy 24 Our strategy in action 28 Key performance indicators 30 Corporate social responsibility 36 Risks and uncertainties 41 Financial review Governance 45 Chairman’s introduction to Governance 46 Board of Directors 48 Directors’ report 54 Directors’ responsibilities statement 55 Corporate governance statement 62 Audit Committee report 66 Report on Directors’ remuneration Financial statements 89 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc 96 Group income statement 97 Group statement of comprehensive income 98 Group balance sheet 99 Group statement of changes in equity 100 Group cash flow statement 101 Notes to the financial statements 134 Five year review 135 Company financial statements 137 Notes to the Company financial statements Other information 140 Alternative performance measures 143 Shareholder information Financial highlights Contents Revenue £m £2,180m Adjusted* earnings per share pence 34.9p * The Directors use a number of alternative performance measures (APMs) that are considered critical to aid understanding of the Group’s performance. This, along with our continued focus on offering excellent guest experiences, has resulted in strong market outperformance. 2 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 “WE NIPPED IN FOR A QUICK LUNCH HAVING MISSED OUR TRAIN. Harvester 208 sites A welcoming place for families to spend time together, have fun and share the pleasure of good, honest food. Stonehouse 82 sites Alongside our traditional carvery, we serve up handmade pizza made with fresh dough; plus burgers and pub classics at a great price. In February 2016, we launched a programme of work designed to meet these priorities, which I believe is now bearing real fruit. Through this period we shall remain focused on delivering our strategy and give priority to maintaining both the competitiveness of our estate and a strong balance sheet, both of which we believe will leave us well positioned in the long term. Estate In total we trade from more than 1,750 pubs and restaurants, of which over 80% are owned under a freehold or long-leasehold. 1 BUILD A MORE BALANCED BUSINESS Rationale • To generate maximum value from our estate of largely freehold- backed properties. • We procure 100% shell-on eggs produced from free range hens, achieving this status six months ahead of our original target. We have invested significantly in technical processes and systems to incorporate the requirements of Regulation (EU) No. Corporate social responsibility continued 32 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 PEOPLE Working with us • Over 14,820 employees have received an award recognising their service to the business. People told us they could see their colleagues living the PRIDE (Passion, Respect, Innovation, Drive and Engagement) values maintaining an upward trajectory in this area since 2015. Following the survey employees in each business or department create an action plan specific to their engagement scores. We are achieving this through our partnership with Believe in Young People by recruiting young people for our work experience opportunities and working with HeadStart in local communities as part of their programme to drive social integration and youth employability. Hospitality is one of the few industries where you can very quickly progress from an apprenticeship into a position of management, therefore helping us develop a talent pipeline and growing our apprenticeship scheme to support our business today and for years to come. M&B now has c. 1,600 active apprentices within the organisation and, whilst this represents significant progress, we are aspiring to add a further 2,500 apprenticeship starters in 2018. We also use other simple but effective products to reduce the volume of water used in our toilets such as Hippo Bags. • Full reviews have been carried out on key categories to ensure optimum value is achieved in each category. • In addition, during FY 2017 , departmental Business Continuity Plans have been revised, updated and reviewed by the Risk Committee. indexed) to 2023, with an additional payment of £13m into escrow in 2024 should such further funding be required at that time. Revenue The Group’s total revenues of £2,141m were 2.6% higher than last year, with growth in like-for-like sales supported by new site openings. With lower footfall on many of these parks and an uncertain economic outlook, alongside increased cost pressures such as living wage, business rates, apprenticeship levy, sugar tax and food price inflation we believe that a number of sites will now be challenged to achieve a breakeven performance. Employee engagement Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees continuously and in a number of ways to suit their different working patterns. This reduction has been achieved despite increasing sales although it should be noted that conversion factors have also reduced, particularly for grid supplied electricity due to a reduction in coal generation which has been balanced by an increase in cleaner gas and renewables generation. Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement in the Group’s performance through share ownership. This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 November 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: Tim Jones Finance Director 22 November 2017 Directors’ responsibilities statement 54 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. Bob Ivell was considered to be independent upon his appointment on 9 May 2011 in that he was free from any business or other relationship with the Company which could materially influence his judgement and he continues to represent a strong source of advice and independent challenge. There are currently four independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board: Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford, Imelda Walsh and Dave Coplin. All Board appointments will be made on merit while taking into account individual competence, skills and expertise measured against identified objective criteria (including consideration of diversity). The Board does not expect that there will be any further fee of this nature in FY 2018. The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of whom are also guests in our pubs, bars and restaurants. During FY 2017 , Risk Committee meetings continued to include a cross-functional, detailed review of the Group’s key risks. The remodel programme in Harvester has prioritised higher levels of amenity, demonstrating that a fresh and contemporary design improves investment returns. Our people are fundamental to the delivery of great guest experiences and where we have consistently high employee engagement, sales growth is strongest. This reduction in team turnover also delivers a significant saving when the cost of recruitment, training and induction is taken into account. Under the proposed new policy at least 50% will be based on financial objectives giving more scope to include strategic measures if appropriate. Therefore, the Committee did not consider it appropriate to determine measures or agree targets for a long-term incentive plan at this time. A two-year holding period will be introduced for all future long-term incentive awards, to strengthen alignment between Executives and shareholders. Directors will be required to retain all vested shares (net of tax) until the share ownership guideline is met. In addition, each year an employee forum is held, which gives the opportunity for employees to ask questions of senior management, via elected representatives. Subsequent demonstration of strong performance may result in a salary increase that is higher than for the wider workforce. Discretionary awards may be made each year, normally taking the form of nil or nominal cost options. Travel and, if relevant, related expenses such as accommodation may be reimbursed on a gross of tax basis. Executive Directors may become eligible for any new benefits introduced to a wider set of other Group employees. The new survey solicits feedback from guests in several ways, for example via e-mail after booking on line or through one of our brand apps. Retail staff employees have been excluded from the comparator group as they are hourly paid, largely part time and do not participate in any bonus plans. Our employees are fundamental to the delivery of great guest experiences and therefore a truly engaged workforce is important. For over a decade, Mitchells and Butlers has sought the views of employees though our annual ‘Your Say’ employee engagement survey. Another important factor is employee recognition, which can take many forms, and the Company supports employees in a number of ways, such as our recognition programme which allows managers to reward great performance in the moment and also service milestones, from one year of service upwards. In addition, all employees can benefit from a generous employee discount and become shareholders through our Share Incentive Plans. The non-profit elements will only become payable if a certain level of Operating Profit has been achieved. However, retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against them will be provided in next year’s Directors’ remuneration report. Loss-making short leasehold properties are reviewed by management to determine whether an onerous lease provision is required. The amendments prohibit entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant and equipment. Total future minimum lease rental payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 £m 2016 £m Due within one year 54 52 Between one and five years 199 194 After five years 440 448 693 694 Operating lease receivables – Group as lessor The Group leases a small proportion of its unlicensed properties to tenants. Management also use judgement to determine the most appropriate method of reviewing short leasehold and unlicensed properties for impairment. The value in use calculation uses forecast trading performance cash flows, which are discounted by applying a pre-tax discount rate of 7% (2016 7%). Provisions The provision for unavoidable losses on onerous property leases has been set up to cover rental payments of vacant or loss-making properties. With lower footfall on many of these parks and the continued uncertain economic outlook, alongside increased cost pressures such as living wage, business rates review, apprenticeship levy, sugar tax and food price inflation, a number of short leasehold sites are now challenged when striving to achieve a break-even profit performance. Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at FVTPL. A combination of cash pooling and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained. Counterparties may also be required to post collateral with the Group, where their credit rating falls below a predetermined level. 122 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 Included in other receivables are amounts due from certain Group suppliers. Included in trade and other payables at the period end are amounts due to some of these suppliers. The cross currency interest rate swap is held under a separate agreement and cash movements for this instrument are settled individually. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also included in shareholders’ equity. Investments have been tested for impairment using forecast cash flows, discounted by applying a pre-tax discount rate of 7 .5% (2016 8.3%). This widely used industry measure provides better insight into the trading performance than total revenue which is impacted by acquisitions and disposals. Adjusted EBITDA is used for this measure to prevent distortions in performance resulting from separately disclosed items.