These strengths are complemented by a highly developed loan servicing platform and through the cycle experience in its senior management team. Against a UK backdrop of limited house building, low investment in social housing and mortgage affordability constraints, tenant demand is expected to remain strong. It also funds small scale property developments and has recently launched in the structured lending market, offering senior debt facilities to non-bank lenders. In addition, it offers servicing of loan portfolios for clients including banks, private equity houses and specialist lenders. Market consolidation amongst debt purchasers combined with improved availability of funding has led to greater competition for individual portfolios. Alongside its transition to a banking model, the Group has made good progress in delivering improved profits and strong organic new business generation. The sector has proved increasingly popular for both specialist purchasers and credit funds in recent years, with yields reducing as a consequence. Idem Capital has retained its credit and pricing discipline across the past year, but as a consequence investment levels have reduced year-on-year. Most lenders, including the Group, were able to adopt these changes without serious disruption • From 1 October 2017, lenders were required to underwrite buy-to-let cases on a much more specialised basis, differentiating between professional and amateur landlords, based on the number of properties owned with buy-to-let finance. The coming year will see development of new product lines, including two already launched, aviation finance and structured lending. Overall Idem Capital’s success rests on understanding assets, strong analytics, advanced servicing capabilities and the efficient use of funding. Securitisation will be used tactically if market conditions are favourable, or where it is appropriate for particular transactions. An analysis of the Group’s central funding between corporate debt and equity (note 7(c)) is shown below. 2017 2016 £m £m Mortgages 9,953.9 9,694.7 Commercial Lending 558.8 375.0 Idem Capital 611.4 667.8 11,124.1 10,737.5 An analysis of the Group’s financial assets by type is shown in note 32. These, together with debt raisings, financed further investments in loan portfolios, the capital requirements of Paragon Bank and credit enhancement for mortgage originations. Cash was also utilised in the share buy-back programme, which commenced during December 2014 and where £166.2 million (including costs) had been deployed by 30 September 2017. In addition, supplementary underwriting requirements apply for “portfolio landlords” which the PRA has defined as borrowers with four or more distinct, mortgaged, buy-to-let properties. In 2017 Paragon has, alongside this transition, witnessed strong growth across all products with total lending increasing by 29% to £1.9 billion. Financial forecasts As described under ‘Accountability’ in Section B3.1, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review. In March 2017 the Group conducted its first diversity survey to obtain anonymous feedback from employees on their age, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religious beliefs and disability. In August one manual handling incident was reported under the Reporting of Incidents, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 (‘RIDDOR’). Specialist Fleet Services (‘SFS’), a division of PAF , leases refuse collection vehicles to local authorities throughout the UK. SFS undertake additional aftersales activities that include servicing, maintenance and breakdown support, hence has the most significant potential environmental impacts. SFS has a dedicated Health and Safety Manager with direct responsibility for environmental issues at all of its sites. He joined the Group in 1987, shortly becoming Treasurer, before being appointed as Finance Director and then Chief Executive. Alan Fletcher will cease to be considered an independent non-executive director in February 2018 on the ninth anniversary of his first appointment. Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition. An external search consultant, Gavin Orr of Lomond Consulting, who has previously assisted the Group with senior appointments, was used in this process. An initial longlist of 26 potential candidates was produced and the Chairman interviewed ten, using a competency-based interview approach. A similar approach is taken to assessing interest on borrowings, where redemption profiles and anticipated refinancing dates influence expense recognition. The policy also makes provision to ensure that no employee making such a disclosure suffers any detriment by doing so. Secondly, that the revised supplements for all three executive directors should be reduced and fixed at 45% with effect from 1 April 2017. Alan Fletcher stood down on 20 September 2017 and Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed Chair of the Committee from that date. Ceased pension accrual on 9 Oct ober 2007 and op t ed out o f final salary linkag e fr om 1 April 2011. Measure Threshold performance T arget Maximum Actual Financial performance Adjust ed oper ating pr o fit £130.0m £144.5m £158.9m £143.2m Future value of new business Lending £1,404.9m £1,561.0m £1,717.1m £1,623.9m Debt purchase investments £75.0m £100.0m £125.0m £208.8m Risk The future value of new business was written in line with the Group’s required return and risk appetite. For any new external appointment, however, the Committee has introduced a holding period of two years to encourage share participation. PAGE 93 • Corporate Governance PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC • 2017 Annual Report and Accounts PSP awards Award levels for executive directors are unchanged at 200% of base salary. The Group aims to help its customers by offering financial options which meet individual needs and achieve fair customer outcomes in a well-controlled environment. As a lender and acquirer of credit portfolios the Group is inevitably exposed to any material deterioration in economic conditions. The Board’s defined strategy is to limit this risk by operating as a specialist lender in carefully chosen markets where its employees have significant levels of experience and expertise. Recoverable amounts on loans may also be affected by adverse movements in security values such as house and commercial asset prices. The Group has comprehensive policies in place that set out detailed criteria which must be met before loans are approved. Credit policies incorporate limits for concentration risks arising from factors such as large exposures to counterparties, geographical areas or types of lending. Change During the last year, a strong employment market and buoyant demand for skilled financial services staff has led to greater competition. The Group remains well funded with sufficient liquidity to meet all its financial obligations as they fall due. Changes in market interest rates could therefore materially impact the Group’s profits as a result of significant mismatches between its assets and liabilities. There is also less historical experience for the newer lending in this segment due to their relatively unseasoned nature. Base models have been completed for the Group’s most material asset classes and indicative outputs are being provided to Credit Committee on a business-as-usual basis. Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Group’s employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries. After this point a salvage balance may be held in respect of any further recoveries expected on the loan. Interest payable by each segment includes directly attributable funding and the allocated cost of retail deposit funds utilised. These are principally present value calculations based on estimated future cash flows arising from the instruments, discounted using a risk adjusted interest rate. Note 2017 2016 Earnings per share (p) 29 43.1 40.5 Proposed dividend per share in respect of the year (p) 58 15.7 13.5 Dividend cover (times) 2.75 3.00 PAGE 154 • The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC • 2017 Annual Report and Accounts (b) Return on tangible equity RoTE is a measure of an entity’s profitability used by investors. A reconciliation of the Group’s equity to its regulatory capital determined in accordance with CRD IV at 30 September 2017 is set out below. They also review and, where authorised to do so, agree or amend policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised in the relevant note. The Group calculates its headline arrears measure for buy-to-let mortgages, shown above, based on the numbers of accounts three months or more in arrears, including purchased Idem Capital assets, but excluding those cases in possession and receiver of rent cases designated for sale. Deposit balances raised are typically used to support lending activities where maturity is over a longer period than that of the deposits. The Group’s exposure to this risk is a natural consequence of its lending, deposit taking and borrowing activities, as some of its financial assets and liabilities bear interest at rates which float with various market rates while others are fixed, either for a term or for their whole lives. In practice such a change might have wider economic consequences which would themselves potentially affect the Group’s business and results. It should be noted that these sensitivities are illustrative only, and much simplified from those used to manage IRRBB in practice. All borrowers are required to make monthly payments, except where an initial deferred period is included in the contractual terms. These exercises suggest that the security value of assets under finance leases which are past due or impaired is £12.2m (2016: £6.7m). All currency borrowings are swapped at inception using bespoke cross-currency basis swaps with principal amortisation and interest rates linked to the underlying borrowing. For certain counterparties a Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) has been executed in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement. A summary of the retail bonds outstanding under this programme, shown with their principal values, is set out below. A summary of the Company’s corporate bonds is set out below: Principal outstanding Carrying value Maturity date Current Interest terms Currency 2017 2016 2017 2016 £m £m £m £m 20 April 2017 3.729% p.a. Drawings under the Term Funding Scheme (‘TFS’) have a maturity of four years and bear interest at bank base rate. No gain or loss arose on these transfers, which will reduce the Plan’s exposure to future volatility. 3 Limited Non-trading All of these companies are registered and operate in the UK except Idem Capital Securities (No. F3 OTHER PUBLIC REPORTING PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC • 2017 Annual Report and Accounts PAGE 233 • Useful Information PAGE 234 • Useful Information PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC • 2017 Annual Report and Accounts RESULTS IN BRIEF Registered and head office 51 Homer Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QJ Telephone: 0121 712 2323 London office Tower 42 Level 12 25 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1HQ Telephone: 020 7786 8474 Investor Relations investor.relations@paragonbank.co.uk Company Secretariat company_secretary@paragonbank.co.uk Internet www.paragonbankinggroup.co.uk Auditor KPMG LLP One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH Solicitors Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0370 707 1244 Brokers Jefferies Hoare Govett UBS Limited Vintners Place 5 Broadgate 68 Upper Thames Street London EC2M 2QS London EC4V 3BJ Remuneration consultants Deloitte LLP Four Brindleyplace Birmingham B1 2HZ Consulting actuaries Mercer Limited Four Brindleyplace Birmingham B1 2JQ F4 CONTACTS PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC • 2017 Annual Report and Accounts PAGE 235 • Useful Information PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands B91 3QJ T elephone: 0121 712 2323 www.paragonbankinggroup.co.uk Registered No.