We have strong relationships with institutional investors and a reputation for successful, on-time delivery of high-quality developments. In addition, Fresh Property Group, our specialist accommodation management company, manages more than 16,000 student beds on behalf of its institutional clients. Watkin Jones has also been responsible for over 50 residential developments, ranging from starter homes to executive housing and apartments. These include AIG, Arlington, Brookfield, CBRE Global (Curlew Student Trust), Europa Capital, GSA, Lasalle, Legal & General, M&G, UBS and UPP . There are over 1.7 million full-time students in the UK and demand for university places remains well ahead of supply. A higher number of students than ever are studying away from home, adding to the demand for private PBSA. A: There is increased demand for buying portfolios, as that allows institutions to deploy more capital and gives them an immediate platform in the market. Q: There is growing political pressure to build more homes in the UK, both for private and social housing. Being able to offer our supply chain twelve months of very similar work is a real competitive advantage for us. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW Mark Watkin Jones Chief Executive Officer Strategy The Group is following a consistent strategy, as set out on page 16, which is delivering sustainable growth and positioning us to take advantage of the exciting opportunities ahead. The residential business also had a good year, completing 94 sales and increasing its gross margin to 16.7%, from 11.5% in FY16. As part of this, we have begun succession planning for management at Board level and below. Our track record helps us to buy at attractive prices, since we can offer vendors more certainty of completion. For our supply chain Suppliers benefit from a consistent workload and the opportunity to grow their business alongside ours. By staggering our PBSA and build to rent developments, we can use the same supply chain for both. Purpose Demonstrates that we generate high-quality profits, which are readily converted to cash, and underpins our dividend payout. The full-time student population has steadily grown, increasing by an average of 2% per year since 2004, to reach 1.74 million. We believe our focus, market knowledge, geographical coverage and ability to work across the entire development cycle give us a competitive advantage. Jim Davies Managing Director Newmark Developments The market opportunity Build to rent has significant momentum as an asset class, with a number of factors creating demand for properties and supporting rental levels. In addition, we launched the Five Nine Living website, which includes a full online booking system. A number of our front-line staff and teams were also winners at the inaugural Student Housing Leadership Awards. With fewer nil-margin sales from legacy sites and more profitable schemes coming into development during FY17, the gross margin was increased to 16.7% (FY16: 11.5%). DOBBIE’S POINT GLASGOW This project comprises 440 student beds over 13 storeys, along with 4,000 sq ft of retail space. These include award-winning initiatives such as our graduate placements, apprenticeships, management development programmes and construction skills certification schemes. A large PBSA development can free up more than 100 homes that were previously occupied by students, making them available to local families. During FY17, the fund made donations to a wide range of charities, sport clubs and other community groups. As an ISO 14001 accredited company, our environmental policy and waste monitoring procedures are well established throughout the Group. This company owned a student accommodation property in Ipswich that had previously been developed by the Group. This was in respect of our development sites at Pittodrie Street, Aberdeen and Midland Road, Bath. Statement of financial position During the year we invested £3.6 million in new plant, principally tower cranes required to support our development programme. If any of the following risks were borne out in reality, there could be an impact on our business, its financial condition or results. • There is a continuing “flight to quality” as students prefer PBSA over traditional, and typically inferior, landlord-run properties. • Careful selection of sites in the right locations maintains demand for new PBSA developments from both students and investors. More developments would be brought to market, with a potential reduction in demand for Watkin Jones’ schemes. • The Group benefits from economies of scale, has established subcontractor supply chains and delivery expertise, which makes it harder for new entrants to compete. Impact: Minor Likelihood: Remote 36 Strategic report Watkin Jones plc // Annual report and financial statements 2017 Risk Impact Link to business model Mitigation Net risk assessment Market and economic conditions A change in the student market or in economic conditions could lead to reduced demand for PBSA or investors seeking increased yields. • There is a continuing “flight to quality” as students prefer PBSA over traditional, and typically inferior, landlord-run properties. • Careful selection of sites in the right locations maintains demand for new PBSA developments from both students and investors. More developments would be brought to market, with a potential reduction in demand for Watkin Jones’ schemes. • The Group benefits from economies of scale, has established subcontractor supply chains and delivery expertise, which makes it harder for new entrants to compete. This provides good visibility of future commitments and enables the Group’s cash flow requirements to be managed. Impact: Moderate Likelihood: Unlikely Human resources There is a risk of over-reliance on senior management to drive the Group’s performance and success. Rectifying this could lead to excessive use of senior management time and expense in recruiting personnel. Impact: Minor Likelihood: Probable Health and safety By their nature, construction sites are inherently high-risk environments. • There is little opportunity for price fixing, as development prices are determined on a negotiated basis. This provides good visibility of future commitments and enables the Group’s cash flow requirements to be managed. Impact: Moderate Likelihood: Unlikely Human resources There is a risk of over-reliance on senior management to drive the Group’s performance and success. Rectifying this could lead to excessive use of senior management time and expense in recruiting personnel. Impact: Minor Likelihood: Probable Health and safety By their nature, construction sites are inherently high-risk environments. • There is little opportunity for price fixing, as development prices are determined on a negotiated basis. Philip qualified as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse in 1990 and progressed rapidly to senior manager, giving him responsibility for several public company clients. 42 Governance Watkin Jones plc // Annual report and financial statements 2017 As Executive Directors, Mark Watkin Jones and Philip Byrom are not members of the Committees but were invited to attend meetings as appropriate to assist with the matters discussed. Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. The Board approved this proposal and KPMG were subsequently appointed to provide internal audit services commencing January 2018. It was agreed that the process would be more formally documented at all stages; • quality of earnings. These increased by £0.7 million this year as a result of historic lease commitments, effectively rent guarantees, on PBSA properties sold in prior years, reflecting some lower occupation levels. As I explain in my introduction to corporate governance on page 40, this remains our intention and will be a priority for FY18. The maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of basic salary for both Mark Watkin Jones and Philip Byrom. Substantial shareholdings Based on the share register analysis as at 15 December 2017, and as far as the Company is aware, the following represents interests in excess of 3% of its ordinary share capital: Number of Holder shares held Percentage G&J Watkin Jones 1992 Settlement Trust 38,901,422 15.24 Woodford Investment Management 32,875,000 12.88 Watkin Jones Will Trust 27,857,985 10.91 Octopus Investments 12,749,031 4.99 Seek Ventures Limited 10,000,000 3.92 BlackRock Investment Management (UK) 9,260,645 3.63 Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint EY will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. In line with IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’, revenue and margin is recognised on a percentage of completion basis. We have set performance materiality at this level due to our past experience on the audit indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected. Watkin Jones plc // Annual report and financial statements 2017 53 Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial. The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. This dividend was declared after 30 September 2017 and as such the liability of £11,231,831 has not been recognised at that date. In addition, the Group has a number of dormant or insignificant subsidiaries that have not been listed because they are immaterial. Trade and other receivables continued The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 Neither past due nor impaired 11,147 8,742 Past due but not impaired: — — Not more than three months — — Greater than three months — — 11,147 8,742 As at 30 September 2017 and 2016, trade receivables that were neither past due nor impaired related to a number of debtors for whom there is no recent history of default. Management has a policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. This dividend was declared after 30 September 2017 and as such the liability of £11,231,831 has not been recognised at that date. GLOSSARY AFS available-for-sale AGM Annual General Meeting AIM Alternative Investment Market CGU cash-generating unit CST Curlew Student Trust EBITDA earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortisation EIR effective interest rate EPS earnings per share EY Ernst & Young LLP Fresh Fresh Property Group GDPR General Data Protection Regulation IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IPO initial public offering KPI key performance indicators NCI non-controlling interests OCI other comprehensive income PBSA purpose built student accommodation RCF revolving credit facility SIP share incentive plan BUILT ON TRUST Watkin Jones plc 21-22 Llandygai Industrial Estate Llandygai Bangor Gwynedd LL57 4YH +44 (0)1248 362 516 info@watkinjones.com watkinjonesplc.com @Watkin_Jones Watkin Jones Group Watkin Jones Group