(iv) ebitda is operating profit stated before depreciation, share-based payments charge and amortisation of intangible assets. 03p (2016: £38.03p) overall care capacity increased by 215 (v) 2 , 53 4 places (2016: 2,319) occupancy 2,159 (2016: 1,983) final dividend per share 6 .6 0p increased by 5.6% (2016: 6.25p) find out more online: www.caretech-uk.com contents our purpose delivering innovative social care on behalf of local authority and health service commissioners throughout the uk, caretech has a long established reputation as a provider of high quality and safe services. our children services cover assessment, residential care, education and fostering options, including specialist provision for very complex young people. we carefully and professionally support any child irrespective of their reasons for being in public care. delivering a safe and secure support of very high quality, ensuring that all our service users enjoy extraordinary days, every day. we also have an outstanding track record for diverting people away from acute care and supporting them in their own homes. these services are highly intensive operations with exceptional staff ratios and include on site or dedicated educational facilities. we have national coverage across england, wales and scotland in a highly fragmented uk social care market. national presence caretech is very well known as a care company in public ownership that operates throughout england, scotland and wales. a number of organic growth projects and potential bolt-on acquisitions had been identified prior to the placing. it has 57 residential beds in eight freehold sites and supported living services are provided to 30 service users. simplifying the structure has also supported planning and service delivery with a more powerful approach to development. i am always drawn to the achievements of our excellent front line staff, which is inevitable as we are first and foremost a care organisation. we plan to introduce another caretech sharesave scheme in 2018 as this is one part of our staff retention strategy. this is where caretech has developed its provision and helps to explain why spending cuts have had minimal impact on the group. this ensures that caretech is in a very strong position to address the demands of our evolving marketplace. nationwide locations the caretech strategy is to offer a strong national presence with local brands and regional service delivery points. this is reinforced by our presence at major industry events where we have been reliable sponsors and commentators. this reflects the improved underlying ebitda and lower finance charges offset by an increased tax provision. it is a total including residential care beds, independent supported living accommodation, community support service users and children that foster carers can currently look after. however, social care does carry risks that will always be at the forefront of our minds. national public policy continues to be a significant driver of local authority commissioning intentions and behaviour. we have continued to strengthen our management structure with further senior appointments planned and to improve the efficiency of our processes following further investment in new systems which have gone live or we are working on now. new systems were procured during the year for the group’s recruitment and training solutions including e-learning with standard automated reports as well as for maintenance, hosting, data analytics and e-compliance in order to benefit from cutting edge technology. this ensures that caretech is in a very strong position to address the demands of our evolving marketplace. our adult services offer a solid and reliable provision across the whole spectrum of service offerings which now includes acquired brain injuries and we see a particular volume demand in the area of supported living, balanced by renewed demand for more specialised residential care solutions. conversely, resources for those with the highest level of need are being maintained and increased in some local authorities. we have an outstanding track record for helping people away from acute care and supporting them in their own homes. however, this is changing as the nhs drives to lower bed capacity and accelerated early discharge from acute psychiatric hospital care. it is generally held that fostering in an ordinary family home delivers better quality than any residential setting. our market intelligence suggests that most, if not all, independent sector fostering agencies are still experiencing some degree of “hold back” at present. however, it is also clear that local authorities fail to undertake a full cost analysis of their in-house provision. in our view this is an expensive and unsustainable approach that exposes local authority commissioners to risk. looking forward we are training our foster carers with the skills required to manage more complex work and have linked the fostering division with our residential team for children so that we can maintain an effective care pathway. it also strengthened the residential care and education services for young people with complex needs, especially ebd. we are currently developing new beds and places that have been commissioned during the past year. we can now bridge that gap by supporting young people as they make the transition to adult life. however, both eql solutions and dawn hodge associates faced a challenging start to the new learning sector year. we care about our communities doing business the right way is of fundamental importance to us. considering non-financial values such as reputation, employee commitment and service user fulfilment helps us develop longer-term opportunities, ultimately adding to the financial bottom line. this year there has been significant policy development and we see some indicators that local authorities have recognised the need to maintain or grow their social care budgets. however, we are mindful about acquisition and have robust criteria which must be satisfied to ensure that any acquired business fits our long-term strategic objectives. haroon sheikh chief executive officer 18 december 2017 strategic review governance – – financial statements caretech holdings plc – annual report and accounts 2017 25 underlying basic earnings per share remained at 38.03p (2016: 38.03p). the adult learning disabilities, specialist services and young people residential services segments have higher margins but normally require considerable capital expenditure to increase capacity, whilst supported living, foster care and learning services operate at a lower margin in part because they do not require capital expenditure to increase capacity and are not reliant on the group’s properties. at 30 september 2017 the group has available bank facilities totalling £195m which are sufficient, with cash flow from operating activities, to fund present commitments. an experienced and driven corporate board 30 caretech holdings plc – annual report and accounts 2017 board of directors karl monaghan non-executive director (aged 55) after graduating from university college dublin with a bachelor of commerce degree, karl trained as a chartered accountant with kpmg in dublin. mike spent nine months as acting chair of a large acute hospital trust in essex and has previously chaired an expert panel on access to work, the government’s flagship disability employment programme. mike has been awarded an honorary doctor of education for disability leadership from anglia ruskin university. however, we have reported on our corporate governance arrangements by drawing upon best practice available, including those aspects of the uk corporate governance code we consider to be relevant to the company and best practice. in addition, the directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate. a cohesive reward structure consistently applied and with links to corporate performance, is seen as critical in ensuring attainment of the group’s strategic goals. last year it included external attendees to its meetings such as the head of safeguarding for hertfordshire county council and received external presentations such as conflict management from maybo to help the committee understand best practice and in 2017 met with cqc. in pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. financial instruments the group is exposed to a combination of price, credit, interest rate and cash flow risks. the group is therefore committed to providing its employees with information on a regular basis, to consulting with them on a regular basis so that their views and/or concerns may be taken into account in taking decisions which may affect their interests, and to encouraging their participation in schemes through which they will benefit from the group’s progress and profitability. non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any of the company’s bonus or share option schemes. bonuses paid in 2017 and 2016 to executive directors are triggered by the achievement of underlying ebitda targets. the non-executive directors have each been appointed under contracts which are subject to three months’ notice of termination on either side. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. – we agreed that appropriate de-recognition of assets has occurred when replacement or refurbishment projects have taken place in the year. we also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as related party transactions. – we evaluated controls over the financial reporting systems identified as part of our risk assessment and addressed critical accounting matters. (ii) ebitda is operating profit stated before depreciation, amortisation of intangible assets and share-based payments charge. as highlighted in that note, the group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through a mixture of bank facilities which are sufficient, with cash flow from profits, to fund present commitments. the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements. (b) measurement convention the financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value and contingent consideration is stated at fair value through profit or loss. caretech holdings plc – annual report and accounts 2017 49 strategic review governance – – financial statements notes to the financial statements (e) intangible assets and goodwill all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method as described in note (r). negative goodwill (bargain purchase credit) arising on an acquisition is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. for goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date. after initial recognition, these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. the impairment loss estimate is then based on recent historical counterparty default rates for each identified group. non-underlying items comprise the following: note 2017 £000 2016 £000 acquisition expenses (i) 806 (390) integration and restructuring costs (i) 2,852 1,780 profit arising from the ground rent transaction under ias 17 – (5,623) costs arising from placement of shares 348 – acquisition and development costs 4,006 (4,233) onerous lease provision (ii) 287 – included in ebitda 4,293 (4,233) amortisation of intangible assets (note 13) 7,190 5,743 included in administrative expenses 11,483 1,510 fair value movements relating to derivative financial instruments (iii) (1,107) 1,258 other financing cost relating to ground rent 1,173 – charges relating to derivative financial instruments (note 5) 829 646 ias 17 lease imputed interest 223 133 included in financial expenses 1,118 2,037 tax on non-underlying items (note 9) current (1,138) (84) deferred tax (iv) (2,676) (2,287) included in taxation (3,814) (2,371) total non-underlying items 8,787 1,176 (i) the group incurred a number of exceptional costs relating to the integration of recent acquisitions and the reorganisation of the internal operating and management structure and redundancy costs totalling £2,852,000 (2016: £1,780,000). at 30 september 2017 the group has available bank facilities totalling £195m, sufficient, with cash flow from profits, to fund present commitments. term facilities are used to fund capital expenditure and short-term flexibility is achieved by the utilisation of cash resources. the group has available bank facilities, sufficient, with cash flow from profits, to fund present commitments. over the longer term, however, permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings. the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. at 30 september 2017 the group has available bank facilities totalling £195m, sufficient, with cash flow from profits, to fund present commitments. term facilities are used to fund capital expenditure and short-term flexibility is achieved by the utilisation of cash resources. the company has available bank facilities, sufficient, with cash flow from profits, to fund present commitments. over the longer term, however, permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings and equity.