we look forward to the opportunity of developing further this fine business, using our existing capability in selling and marketing speciality foods internationally. the primark management team also had further success in mitigating currency headwinds, they delivered on-trend fashion and their stores have never looked better. notwithstanding this highly successful year, primark constantly seeks better ways of delivering value to customers, be that through store design and location, stock availability, or enhancing its reputation for on-trend fashion. this will provide benefits both for uk consumers and trade with these countries which plays an important part in securing the livelihoods of local workforces. we believe that an ethical business is primarily built by its people, not through codes of practice or words on a page. associated british foods plc annual report and accounts 2017 12 business strategies ab agri is a unique group of leading agricultural businesses operating across the entire food supply chain. to make sure the excitement of this new initiative was followed through in-store, 58 two-hour engagement sessions were held in 25 locations nationally. operating profit at ach’s continuing operations were well ahead of last year driven by higher revenue and lower overheads. margins improved again this year at george weston foods in australia where cost management delivered significant operational efficiencies and overhead reduction. these factories processed a record beet crop with 180,000 tonnes of sugar produced although sucrose yields were lower than in recent years. these are controlled environment facilities which allow accelerated r&d activity and will further increase the speed to market of germains’ new products. working with industry partners, germains developed a unique product solution which targets early plant protection – pythium damage typically takes place in the first 14 days after planting. its focus is to add value and deliver profit for partners all along that chain by improving the sustainability of food production. this resource includes expert advice from our wellbeing partners, including living sport, which encourages sports participation, and healthcare specialist bupa. an ab agri wellbeing programme is giving employees the tools to boost their physical, emotional and financial health international sites 40 following the pilot, the programme will be rolled out across ab agri’s evolution through innovation ab agri continues to evolve its operations through innovation, as exemplified in its latest venture which uses a co-product from one of abf’s other operations, vivergo fuels, to create value – and power – in another, amur, an anaerobic digestion business that was launched last year. since then, ab agri has helped transform the business and its core alternative protein product, alphasoy (agrokorn’s flagship brand), to reach new levels. abf ingredients delivered strong sales and profit growth with margin improvement driven by a higher proportion of revenues from premium markets. spi also benefited from developments in the pharmaceutical sector with good growth for its functional excipients and drug delivery solutions. our us protein extrusion business gained from the consumer trend for healthy snacking, and achieved margin growth through improvement in manufacturing yields. with a unique combination of the latest fashion and lean operations, primark offers customers quality, up-to-the-minute designs at value-for- money prices. sales in continental europe were 16% ahead of last year at constant currency and on a comparable week basis, reflecting the extensive selling space expansion there. not only is this socially responsible, it also forms an important part of building teams that work well together, particularly in new stores. year ended 16 september 2017 year ended 17 september 2016 # of stores sq ft 000 # of stores sq ft 000 uk 182 6,835 171 6,362 spain 44 1,675 41 1,503 germany 22 1,401 20 1,272 republic of ireland 37 1,083 36 1,032 netherlands 18 849 15 679 france 11 562 8 407 us 8 485 5 322 portugal 9 300 9 300 austria 5 242 5 243 belgium 5 227 4 166 italy 4 203 1 56 345 13,862 315 12,342 new store openings uk bracknell carlisle colchester llandudno llanelli rushden shrewsbury stafford truro uxbridge york, coppergate spain granada mallorca tarragona france evry, paris lille val d’europe, paris belgium charleroi the netherlands damrak, amsterdam hilversum zwolle germany hamburg mannheim ireland liffey valley, dublin italy brescia florence verona us burlington, massachusetts south shore, massachusetts staten island, new york relocations uk reading sheffield associated british foods plc annual report and accounts 2017 43 strategic report we continue to explore opportunities to bring our unique offer of ‘amazing fashion, amazing prices’ to new markets across europe launching in the italian market in 2016, we were confident our brand would make an impact in a country famous for its fashion credentials. licensed merchandise is performing particularly well as consumers have responded positively to the broad selection of products available at a lower price point than our competitors. shoppers are greeted by mannequins positioned on plinths creating a ‘fashion catwalk’ showcasing our latest looks and emphasising the great value that primark offers. primark boasts an incredibly engaged community across all social channels with beauty posts on instagram regularly achieving in excess of 60,000 likes and snapchats can get over 1.5 million views. insta-glam retail associated british foods plc annual report and accounts 2017 46 keeping it on trend sales continue to grow within product categories that are driven by cosmetic trends. we remain committed to gender diversity and our focus on numerous initiatives in this area has had a positive impact, particularly amongst middle management. higher agricultural commodity prices adversely affected margins in our china and uk compound feed businesses although firmer grain pricing benefited frontier agriculture. our sugar and grocery businesses have supported healthy eating campaigns during the year to help consumers make informed choices about their food. we have established processes, group it security policies and technologies in place, all of which are subject to regular internal audit. sensitivity analysis was applied to these metrics and the projected cash flows were stress tested against a range of scenarios. the nomination committee has procedures for appointing a non-executive or an executive director and these are set out in its terms of reference. as a result of volatility in world and european sugar prices, we introduced an additional earnings per share measure into the long term incentive plan (ltip). we increased shareholding requirements for our executive directors and introduced a deferred award of shares connected with the short term incentive plan (stip). operation and link to business strategy base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities. his pension benefits are payable from age 65. there is no additional benefit entitlement for members if they take early retirement. implementation of policy 2017/18 base salary executive directors’ salaries are subject to review on 1 december 2017 and will be increased as shown in the table below. the group encourages an open culture in all its dealings between employees and people with whom it comes into contact. every effort is made to protect the confidentiality of those who raise concerns, and employees may come forward without fear for their position. significant agreements – change of control the group has contractual arrangements with many parties including directors, employees, customers, suppliers and banking groups. significant agreements – change of control the group has contractual arrangements with many parties including directors, employees, customers, suppliers and banking groups. we performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 94 locations, which covered 89% of the group’s revenue. this is an increase from 50% (£25 million) in 2016 to reflect the fact that 2016 was our first period as auditor of associated british foods plc. this is an increase from 50% (£25 million) in 2016 to reflect the fact that 2016 was our first period as auditor of associated british foods plc.  based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above. assets classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. the group economically hedges foreign currency exposure on recognised monetary assets and liabilities but does not normally seek hedge accounting. any derivatives that the group holds to hedge this exposure are classified as ‘held for trading’ within derivative assets and liabilities. in addition to the amounts disclosed above, at 17 september 2016 there were £10m of trade and other payables classified as liabilities held for sale. as a result, it is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates which affect the group’s transaction costs. available headroom is monitored via the use of detailed cash flow forecasts prepared by each business, which are reviewed at least quarterly, or more often, as required. uncommitted bank borrowing facilities are normally reaffirmed by the banks annually, although they can theoretically be withdrawn at any time. limited austria schottenring 19, 1010 wien, austria primark austria ltd & co kg bangladesh level 13 shanta western tower bir uttam mir shawkat road 186 tejgaon i/a dhaka 1208 twinings ovaltine bangladesh limited belgium industriepark 2, 9820 merelbeke, belgium ab mauri belgium nv boulevard raymond poincare 07/113, 4020 liege, belgium primark sa brazil avenida tietê, l-233 barranca do rio tietê, city of pederneiras, state of sao paulo, cep 17.280-000, brazil ab brasil indústria e comércio de alimentos ltda 28. group entities continued associated british foods plc annual report and accounts 2017 152 notes forming part of the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 16 september 2017 152 subsidiary undertakings % effective holding if not 100% alameda amazonas 938, 3rd floor, alphaville – barueri, sao paulo 06454-070, brazil ab enzimas brasil comercial ltda rua cardeal arcoverde. the directors undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.