2017 £9.1m 2017 £1.1m 2016 £10.6m 2016 £1.9m Loss after tax Total billings* 02 Strategic report WHAT WE DO ILLUMINATING OUR TECHNOLOGY AT A GL ANCE LIGHTING Direct sales of own manufactured product Specialised lighting focus Horticulture Phototherapy We are focused on continually developing and scaling up CFQD ® quantum dots that are fit for purpose across large addressable markets. Nanoco is a global business with its headquarters in Manchester, where the Group’s R&D activities are based. I am pleased to say that the recent announcement of an equity placing has alleviated liquidity concerns. Important progress was made during 2017 in two of the Group’s three other target markets: life sciences and specialised lighting. • New production methods have achieved a substantial reduction in costs while increasing the productivity of installed capacity. Following detailed technical discussions to establish the customer specification and Nanoco film solution options, an iterative program of work is undertaken. This involves computer simulation modelling and multiple film samples to best fit the customer’s display system. We now have a three-pronged go-to-market strategy which will enable us to capitalise on the expected demand for our CFQDs. Samsung, with its QLED brand, is leading the field and sold more than 3 million QD displays in 2016. New production methods have achieved a substantial reduction in costs while increasing the productivity of installed capacity. Product from Nanoco/ Wah Hong was used by three manufacturers, Hisense, TCL and TPV Philips, at CES in January 2017, to demonstrate prototype large screen, UHD, wide colour gamut LCD TVs. Merck is actively engaged with its potential customers on various CFQD application projects and sells under the Livilux ® brand. Commercialisation – staying ahead of the technology curve In May 2017 Nanoco signed a collaboration and joint development agreement (“ JDA”) with Kyulux Inc. Nanoco also strengthened its intellectual property in electroluminescence with the acquisition of a patent portfolio from Kodak Eastman. 3.2 MILLION CFQD TVs SOLD IN 2016 24 MILLION DISPLAYS WILL BE CADMIUM- FREE BY 2021 Read about our markets Pages 12-13 Read about our sustainability Pages 25-31 CHIEF EXE CUTIVE OFFICE R ’ S S TATEMENT CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 09 Nanoco Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Other markets While display was the Group’s primary focus during the year, Nanoco continued to develop its other target markets of life sciences and specialised lighting. This fundraise significantly strengthens Nanoco’s balance sheet and puts it on a strong footing for the opportunities ahead. The display market • The display market includes: televisions, monitors, notebooks, tablets and smartphones • Stronger demand for large ultra-high-definition (“UHD”) and 8K panels could slow declining average selling prices • Global display demand could pick up after 2016 if global economy improves • Flat panel display (“FPD”) area is expected to grow as demand for large TVs rises • Samsung and LG were the major brands sold in 2016, followed by China’s Hisense and TCL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Nanoco Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 QD display market forecast by application (volume) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 ■ Smartphone — — — — — — — ■ Tablet 0.3 — — — — — — ■ Notebook — 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 ■ Monitor 0.2 1.1 1.0 1.4 2.0 2.7 3.3 ■ TV 1.2 4.0 7.4 11.6 15.1 19.1 22.5 Millions of units 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 QD display market forecast by type (volume) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 ■ QDCF — — — 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.7 ■ QD surface 1.3 3.9 8.3 12.7 16.1 20.3 23.6 ■ QD edge 0.4 1.3 0.1 — — — — ■ QD chip — — — 0.3 0.8 1.2 1.7 Millions of units NANOCO AWARDED GRANT FROM INNOVATE UK FOR MAJOR LIFE SCIENCES PROJECT LIFE SCIENCE S Nanoco has been awarded a major grant from Innovate UK, the UK’s innovation agency, to support its ongoing research into the use of quantum dot nanoparticles within cancer imaging. Under the agreement, Nanoco’s heavy-metal-free quantum dots will be combined with Kyulux’s hyperfluorescence “thermally activated delayed fluorescence” (“TADF”) technology to create future generation hybrid OLED/QLED display technology with superior qualities to existing products in the display market. 3 WE ARE EXCITED BY THE POTENTIAL OF THIS PARTNERSHIP, WHICH BRINGS TOGETHER TWO GLOBAL LEADERS IN THEIR FIELDS.” MICHAEL EDELMAN Chief Executive Officer STRATEGIC REPORT 16 Strategic report MEASUREMENT WHY IT’S IMPORTANT RESULTS LINK TO STRATEGY Year-end cash and short-term deposits This measures the availability of cash for corporate purposes. Availability of sufficient liquidity is essential, especially where commitments are made to carry out self-funded research and development activities. In last year’s Annual Report we highlighted cash resources and production capacity at our Runcorn facility as the major risk issues. Cost savings were implemented during the year, a fundraise of £8.0 million was completed post-year end and cash will continue to be prudently managed. Loss before interest, tax, amortisation and share-based payment charges (“LBITDA”) was as shown in the table below. Capitalised patent spend is amortised over ten years in line with the established Group’s accounting policy. The placing proceeds and other cash balances will be invested across a number of financial institutions which have investment-grade credit ratings. These first orders are for initial production, which is expected to ramp up over the coming months. Further demonstrating the Group’s continued momentum, Nanoco is focused on ten television and monitor projects with five companies. Nanoco has participated actively with regulators on the use of cadmium-based quantum dots in displays and LED light products. Our laboratories require continuous negative pressure environments and, consequently, it is not possible to set realistic reduction targets in the consumption of electricity. Audits are performed every three years in line with our duty of care as a waste producer. Equal opportunities Nanoco is committed to a policy of treating all its employees and job applicants equally. 14 DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES Read about our Board Pages 32–33 Read about our governance Pages 34–36 SUS T AINABILIT Y CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 Nanoco Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2017 determined on an annual basis by the Remuneration Committee and Executive Directors, as appropriate. DISPL A Y 30 Strategic report Communication HR will communicate/provide training on agreed good management practice (knowledge, skills and behaviours framework). It is managed by HR in conjunction with EHS and will assess Nanoco’s working practices against the HSE Management Standards. As part of the personal development planning process employees discuss future career ambitions with their manager. THE BOARD ACTIVELY ENCOURAGES EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP VIA THE LTIP SHARE OPTION SCHEME.” RUTH HAILW OOD Head of HR 1-1 MANAGEMENT ONE-TO-ONE UPDATES WITH TEAM MEMBERS 14 DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES 24% FEMALE EMPLOYEES CHILDCARE VOUCHER SCHEME AND FLEXIBLE WORKING COMPANYWIDE LTIP SHARE OPTION SCHEME 31 Nanoco Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 32 Corporate governance AN EXPERIENCED TEAM DR CHRISTOPHER RICHARDS Non-executive Chairman Appointed Chris was appointed Chairman of Nanoco Group plc in May 2016, having joined the Board as a Non-executive Director in November 2015. Chris is the former Chief Executive Officer of Arysta LifeScience, a Japan-based agrochemical business which grew rapidly under his leadership. After gaining his DPhil from the University of Oxford in Biological Science, Chris worked as a research scientist for four years. He has a passion and experience in taking research work from the academic bench through to full commercialisation. After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant David joined the Newcastle office of Price Waterhouse (now PwC), where he worked for nine years in audit and business advisory services. Alison started her career at Zeneca PLC (now Astra Zeneca) followed by five years at McKinsey & Company and later co-founded Techtran Group Limited, which was acquired by IP Group in 2005, where she held the role of Director and COO until 2013. Formerly, he was Chief Executive Officer of Ciba Inc., the major international chemicals company acquired by BASF in 2009. Certain key senior management members are invited to give presentations at Board and Committee meetings where appropriate. MEMBERS • Dr Christopher Richards (Chairman) • Brendan Cummins • Dr Alison Fielding (appointed 20 April 2017) • Robin Williams (resigned on 13 July 2017) • Gordon Hall (resigned on 31 January 2017) The Board strongly believes that good governance and strong, responsible, balanced leadership are critical to creating long-term shareholder value and business success. It is chaired by Dr Christopher Richards since his appointment as a Non-executive Director in November 2015. The Audit Committee continues to be vigilant in its monitoring of internal and external risk factors. Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Company’s defined contribution scheme (or such other pension plan as may be deemed appropriate). In appropriate circumstances, such as where contributions exceed the annual or lifetime allowance, Executive Directors may be permitted to take a cash supplement instead of contributions to a pension plan (this would not count towards the bonus or LTIP opportunity). Stretching performance targets are set each year by the Committee taking into account a number of different factors. The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to “buy out” remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer. Any such payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above. Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue in accordance with their terms. These awards are subject to the following share price growth and Group revenue performance conditions measured over three financial years ending 31 July 2019. Including only option grants post-admission to AIM and excluding any awards that have lapsed, the current dilution is 6.85%. The Company’s members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given. Supply and licence agreements with partners can be significant in delivering the Group’s revenue during its pre-commercialisation phase. This risk area is consistent with the prior year except that it also now includes assets held for sale of £535,000 (2016: £nil). • Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, all internal activities related to research and development of new products are continuously monitored by the Directors. (c) Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. The following bases and rates are used to depreciate classes of assets: Laboratory infrastructure – straight line over remainder of lease period (two to ten years) Fixtures and fittings – straight line over five years Office equipment – straight line over three years Plant and machinery – straight line over five years The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Cost based on latest contractual prices includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition. (w) New accounting standards and interpretations The following amendments to IFRS became mandatory in this reporting period. A cumulative retrospective approach as modified in accordance with the standard is expected to be taken. The aggregate original cost of intangible assets now fully depreciated but considered to be still in use is £161,000 (2016: £154,000). The Directors consider that these assets will be disposed of within twelve months through a sale transaction. Share-based payment reserve continued Share option schemes continued Nanoco Group plc 2015 Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) Grant in December 2015 Following approval of the new scheme at the 2015 AGM, share options were granted to four Executive Directors at nil cost. The future aggregate minimum lease and service charge payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 July 2017 Group £’000 31 July 2016 Group £’000 Land and buildings: Not later than one year 779 594 After one year but not more than five years 2,039 1,551 After five years — 226 2,818 2,371 26. The Group may use forward exchange contracts as an economic hedge against currency risk, where cash flow can be judged with reasonable certainty. Directors Dr Christopher Richards Non‑ executive Chairman Dr Michael Edelman Chief Executive Officer Dr Nigel Pickett Chief Technology Officer Keith Wiggins Chief Operating Officer David Blain Chief Financial Officer Dr Alison Fielding Non‑ executive Director Brendan Cummins Senior Independent Non‑ executive Director Secretary David Blain Registered office 46 Grafton Street Manchester M13 9NT Website www.nanocotechnologies.com Auditor Ernst & Young LLP 2 St Peter’s Square Manchester M2 3EY Legal adviser Reed Smith LLP The Broadgate Tower 20 Primrose Street London EC2A 2RS Investor relations MHP Communications 6 Agar Street London WC2N 4HN LHA 800 Third Avenue 17 th Floor New York 10022 Broker Peel Hunt LLP 120 London Wall London EC2Y 5ET PR consultants Tier One Partners LLC 80 Burlington Street Lexington MA 02420 Registrar Neville Registrars Neville House 18 Laurel Lane Halesowen B63 3DA INVE S T OR INFORMATION Nanoco Group plc 46 Grafton Street Manchester M13 9NT UK Nanoco Group plc – Annual Report and Accounts 2017