we do not develop bespoke applications or specialise in any industry-specific vertical application but can partner with third party organisations for these requirements. i am confident that these plans will ensure a very orderly transition in due course. for my own part, it has been a privilege to chair softcat through its ipo in 2015. shareholder returns our dividend policy remains a progressive one which targets an annual dividend of between 40% and 50% of the company’s profits after tax in each financial year before any exceptional items. 6,500+ applications 98% employee satisfaction we employ bright, highly motivated people who care about the organisation they work for. our goal: to be the leading it infrastructure provider in terms of employee engagement, customer satisfaction and shareholder return. an expanding branch network, growing recruitment capacity and flourishing service capability position us well for sustainable growth. that, combined with another year of strong cash generation, resulted in the special dividend we’ve proposed alongside these results. our security and services businesses were perhaps the two standout performers, delivering very strong growth. we saw strong underlying growth in this area, which was further assisted by purchases related to organisations preparing themselves for general data protection regulation (‘gdpr’) compliance, which will be enforced from 25 may 2018. this is a significant challenge for the majority of our customers and there is a lot more work required in this area, which is therefore a good opportunity for us moving forward. yes, that’s right; we have branches in marlow, london, manchester, leeds, glasgow and bristol but have also recently announced that we intend to open a seventh location on the south coast in the first half of this new financial year. it is a very consistent view with what we have been saying for the last five years and there are several levels to this. we see an increasing proportion of our software licensing business transition to a cloud-based platform. some customers may effectively outsource the management and possibly ownership of that infrastructure to a third party. overall, however, we see a continuing trend from customers to transition towards the public cloud for an increasing number of workloads. by helping customers intelligently migrate to the hybrid cloud world and by taking share from our competition, we believe that we can continue to grow our business in this segment despite the changing market. all areas are affording us plenty of opportunity and we continue to expand our offering in each. we’re on it strong performance from our new offerings such as managed print and contractual support services. that will take the time it takes and we are not working to any set deadline. martin hellawell chief executive 18 october 2017 opportunity 10 what sets us apart markets and offering vendor partnerships customer relationships our people see pages 12 to 13 for more information see pages 16 to 17 for more information see pages 18 to 19 for more information see pages 14 to 15 for more information strategic report 11 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 made of the right stuff our people what sets us apart we believe that softcat employees are the best in the industry. fun responsible our company values are captured in four key words: the softcat dna we care passionately about two things – outstanding employee satisfaction and world-class customer service. every customer has digital aspirations and by getting these things right we can help them achieve those goals. we’re on it 200+ vendors 17 17 strategic report 18 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 creating competitive advantage our customer relationships what sets us apart continued if there’s one single reason why softcat has delivered such strong growth over such a long period of time, it’s the strength of our customer relationships. but what really sets us apart is the passion, intelligence and integrity with which our people serve their customers. • delivery of eps growth will also contribute indirectly to share price performance, an important element in total shareholder return (‘tsr’). • maintenance of a very high result in this metric is central to our business model. this reflects good progress across all customer segments with public sector business once again expanding fastest and rising as a proportion of total income to 31% (2016: 29%). public sector revenue performance was boosted by the signing of a large central government, low margin deal during the first half worth up to £40m over three years, with £14m of income booked during 2017. revenue growth was also very strong across the corporate sector by virtue of both new customer wins and cross-selling new products to existing customers. perhaps even more pleasing, gross profit per customer rose 6.5% (2016: 9.2%), or 9.6% (2016: 6.2%) on an underlying basis (excluding the 2016 procurement benefit). ownership for each risk has been assigned to a member of the senior management team based upon alignment with operational duties. an outsourced internal audit function has been established to support and enhance the company’s management of principal risks. • continued investment in operations centre management and other resources • ongoing upgrades to network • regular testing of disaster recovery plans • ongoing training for sales and operations teams to keep pace with new vendor programmes • rebate programmes are industry standard and not specific to the company • rebates form an important, albeit minority, element of total operating profits • culture embedded in the organisation over a long history • branch structure with empowered local management • quarterly staff survey with feedback acted upon • regular staff events and incentives • succession planning process • experienced and broad senior management team link to strategy link to strategy link to strategy link to strategy link to strategy link to strategy link to strategy 24 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 business strategy operational operational financial people risk risk risk risk risk risk risk customer dissatisfaction failure to evolve our technology offering with changing customer needs cyber and data security business interruption profit margin pressure including rebates culture change poor leadership change from 2016 change from 2016 change from 2016 change from 2016 change from 2016 change from 2016 change from 2016 no change no change no change no change no change no change no change potential impacts potential impacts potential impacts potential impacts potential impacts potential impacts potential impacts • reputational damage • loss of competitive advantage • loss of customers • reduced profit per customer • inability to deliver customer services • reputational damage • financial loss • customer dissatisfaction • business interruption • reputational damage • financial loss • reduced margins • reduced staff engagement • negative impact on customer service • lack of strategic direction • deteriorating vendor relationships • reduced staff engagement management and mitigation management and mitigation management and mitigation management and mitigation management and mitigation management and mitigation management and mitigation • graduate training programme • ongoing vendor training for sales staff • annual customer survey with detailed follow-up on negative responses • process for escalating cases of dissatisfaction to md and ceo • processes in place to act on customer feedback about new technologies • training and development programme for all technical staff • regular business reviews with all vendors • sales specialist teams aligned to emerging technologies to support general account managers • regular specialist and service offering reviews with senior management • company-wide information security policy • appropriate induction and training procedures for all staff • external penetration testing programme undertaken • iso 27001 accreditation • operation of backup operations centre and datacentre platforms • established processes to deal with incident management, change of control, etc. as a company, we have also benefited from these programmes as they continue to help increase employee engagement, satisfaction and development through the endless activities our employees lead, encouraged and supported by the company. tuberous sclerosis association, the prince’s trust, comic relief and children in need have all benefited from our charitable activities to date. for the last five years we have worked particularly closely with dreams come true, raising a total of £1.2m over this timeframe. we are very proud to have helped children and young people with serious or life-limiting conditions fulfil their dreams. these events promote team building and unity within softcat, alongside the primary goal of helping those less fortunate than ourselves. in the current financial year we have installed a new managed print solution reducing waste. softcat offices use energy-saving technology, such as energy-efficient lighting which automatically shuts off when not being used and thin clients rather than energy-hungry desktops. • scope 1: comprises emissions from our pool cars and natural gas burnt in boilers we control. we have also published a modern slavery statement which is available on our website, softcat.com. we are therefore especially focused on working with the industry to improve this position and ensure that softcat is not missing valuable sources of talent. we are pleased that the company continued to perform well with strong profit growth and cash generation. previous roles lee spent ten years as chief financial officer of domino’s pizza group plc and held the post of group finance director at health club holdings limited, formerly holmes place plc, where he also served for 18 months as deputy chief executive. our non-executive directors are conscious of the need to keep themselves properly briefed and informed about current issues. we aim to ensure that all questions are comprehensively dealt with at these meetings. other shareholder meetings the 2017 annual general meeting will be held on 8 december at softcat plc, fieldhouse lane, marlow sl7 1lw. both make themselves available, when requested, for meetings with shareholders on issues relating to the company’s governance and strategy. the committee also receives detailed monthly reporting on business performance to include revenue recognition data and trends. the committee receives management information on rebates accrued as part of monthly performance reporting and monitors trends against prior period results. once his successor is in place, the board intends to appoint martin as non-executive chairman. graham joined softcat in 2015 to support the company on its journey as a listed organisation. last year his salary increase was 3%, in line with the rises provided to all employees of softcat. the policy we put forward at last year’s agm received over 99% support, for which i would like to thank shareholders. we believe the policy continues to be fit for purpose and therefore it will remain unchanged this year.   share incentive plan (‘sip’)   minimum shareholding requirements • chief executive: 200% of salary • chief financial officer: 150% of salary  introduction in this section, we set out our remuneration policy, its link to corporate strategic objectives and the performance and remuneration outcomes for the 2017 financial year. part a – at a glance continued remuneration committee report continued 49 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance long‑term incentives awarded in fy17 on 8 december 2016 awards under the company’s long term incentive plan (‘ltip’) were made to the executive directors. further details are on page 55. single figure remuneration for our executive directors the tables below set out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each executive director in respect of fy17. the implementation of the policy for the 2018 financial year is outlined on page 59. part a – at a glance continued remuneration committee report continued 51 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance remuneration policy table summary continued element of remuneration operation salary an executive director’s basic salary is set on appointment and reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or responsibility. non-executive directors and the chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements. part a – at a glance continued 1,200 1,400 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 minimum 100% 268 31.4% 37.4% 31.2% 851 20.2% 39.9% 39.9% 1,329 on-target maximum minimum on-target maximum £’000 1,200 1,400 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 £’000 fixed bonus ltip fixed bonus ltip 100% 206 37.5% 26.2% 36.3% 550 24.4% 28.3% 47.3% 846 chief financial officer ([graham charlton]) chief executive officer ([new ceo if in place]) remuneration committee report continued 53 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy continued pay at risk continued executive director contracts and letters of appointment for chairman and non‑executive directors executive directors name date of service contract nature of contract notice periods compensation provisions for early termination from company from director martin hellawell 29 october 2015 rolling twelve months twelve months none graham charlton 29 october 2015 rolling twelve months twelve months none non-executive directors name date of letter of appointment brian wallace 29 october 2015 1 lee ginsberg 4 august 2015 vin murria 3 november 2015 peter ventress 29 september 2015 note: 1. commencement date as chairman: 1 august 2014. the committee’s policy for setting notice periods is that a twelve-month period will apply for executive directors. beneficially owned deferred shares not subject to performance conditions l tip interests subject to performance conditions interests in unvested sip shares 3 vested and unexercised unvested exercised executive directors martin hellawell 4 200 22,966 14,784,399 — 384,462 1,204 — — — yes graham charlton 150 3 1,310 2 — 261,433 301 — — — no non-executive directors brian wallace n/a n/a 860,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a lee ginsberg n/a n/a 20,833 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a vin murria n/a n/a 295,397 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a peter ventress n/a n/a 30,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a notes: 1. this is based on a closing share price of £4 at 31 july 2017 and the year-end salaries of the executive directors. any director so appointed must retire and put themselves forward for election at the next annual general meeting (‘agm’). the company is not party to any other significant agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control. the relationship agreement will remain in effect for so long as: (a) peter kelly (and/or any of his connected persons) holds at least 10%. equality and diversity the company operates an equal opportunities policy which endeavours to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of gender, disability, race, national or ethnic origin, sexual orientation or marital status. this is undertaken through a variety of methods including, but not limited to, weekly all-company meetings, team briefings, company days, email and the intranet. at team meetings, managers are responsible for ensuring that information sharing, discussion and feedback take place on a regular basis. the principal risks are set out on pages 24 to 25 and the most relevant potential impact of these risks on viability was considered to be: • a substantial and sustained decrease in revenue resulting from a loss of softcat culture or inability to satisfy customer needs; • a substantial fall in achievable gross margins resulting from margin pressure associated with a fall in levels of customer service; and • an ongoing increase in the working capital cycle. subject to any restrictions set out in this section, on a show of hands every holder of ordinary shares who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares who is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which he/she is the registered holder. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. • the company may at times be under pressure to meet ambitious growth targets and analyst expectations as a newly listed entity. when targets are exceeded there may be a risk that revenue is inappropriately deferred into the following fiscal year. we evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion. misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. • based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations. these estimates and judgements are based on factors considered to be relevant, including historical experience that may differ significantly from the actual outcome. separately, management reviews individual large deals on a case-by-case basis, which reduces the opportunity for error. this analysis has identified some discrete areas in which adjustments may be required to reporting under the principal versus agent assessment. the company assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. improvements to solar house are depreciated over a ten-year period, which represents their useful life. a provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables. trade payables due after one year are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. financial statements 81 softcat plc annual report and accounts 2017 1 accounting policies continued 1.17 share-based payments continued long term incentive plan (‘ltip’) details in relation to the softcat long term incentive plan 2016 awards to executive directors are included in the directors’ remuneration report on page 49. the awards will only vest and become exercisable upon achievement of performance targets, linked to earnings per share and total shareholder return, as well as being conditional upon continued employment with the company. credit risk with respect to cash deposits is managed by carefully selecting the institutions with which cash is deposited and spreading its deposits across more than one such institution to ease concentration risk. access to cash is not restricted and could all be drawn upon immediately if so required. at 31 july 2017, share options outstanding under the csop were as follows: option term (vesting date to expiry) exercise price £ no. the fair value of csop options granted was calculated using the black-scholes model, incorporating relevant assumptions for weighted average share price, weighted average exercise price, expected volatility, expected dividend yield, risk-free interest rate and share option term. the following assumptions were used: 31 july 2017 31 july 2016 eps tsr eps tsr proportion of ltip award 50% 50% 50% 50% share price (£) 2.97 2.97 3.20 3.20 weighted average exercise price at grant date (£) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 risk-free interest rate 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% expected volatility 31% n/a 26% n/a performance period (years) 3 3 3 3 senior management an award of 288,244 (2016: nil) shares was made to members of the executive leadership team and other senior management in the year. this document is printed on cocoon silk 100; process chlorine free (pcf) paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the fsc®.