their diligence and calmness under pressure meant that short-term considerations have not caused us to deviate from our strategic priorities. we constantly review systems across all our facilities in the belief that everyone has a right to risk-free working conditions. this helps to deliver enduring client relationships out of which the group can build long-term market strength and shareholder value. we deliberately operate a flat corporate structure that gives autonomy to individual management teams whilst encouraging and facilitating collaboration within the group. this is enhanced by having a managing director responsible for more than one subsidiary business, such as in our data segment. corporate governance strategic report our figures 05 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 05 international marketing services group made up of dynamic market-leading businesses st ives: provides investment to accelerate growth supports and facilitates collaboration offers autonomy group businesses: operate as individual brands offer complementary services share common attributes – culture, ambition, specialism business model st ives offers autonomy and supports collaboration to accelerate growth collaboration read more on page 10 acquisition read more on page 14 internationalisation read more on page 18 growth drivers our strategy for growth is centred around three key priorities 06 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 action to reduce the cost base of both segments to reflect the new market realities. despite these issues and their impact on the results, we are pleased to report encouraging underlying progress within our core strategic marketing segment. the principal challenges remain in our legacy marketing activation and books segments where, despite their strong market positions, increased competition continues to exert downward pressure on margins. tesco had already conducted experiments to collect shopper data, providing early insight for a discovery phase run by tab’s strategy team. with tesco being such a strong brand, it was essential for the app to behave and feel like an integrated channel. short, quick feedback loops embedded in the app will continue to provide data on emerging pain points and highlight areas of improvement for future releases. the two are working together to develop innovative connected digital experiences using voice, virtual reality and internet of things technology for clients. our healthcare consultancy, hive, has gained several major new clients during the period including roche, leo pharma, lundbeck, ipsen, and almirall. while our expertise in grocery retail remains an important strength, diversification of the client base beyond this sector continues to be a priority. while we have been successful in securing this work, it should be noted that books marketing activation * before adjusting items. we will also continue to focus on margin protection while differentiating our competitive offering through targeted investment in new service lines and further additional cross-sales initiatives. having defined top line customer journeys, they are now developing these further, focusing on messaging, creative, general data protection regulation (‘gdpr’) compliance and more. “we’ve brought together multiple teams from different disciplines to build its new european web platform: strategy, user experience, content, technical support, data intelligence and more. “amaze one combines the best of both worlds – a data-driven business rooted in digital creativity and audience understanding,” proudler states. that will only increase over time.” corporate governance strategic report our figures 13 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 data within st ives – which includes response one, bench, amaze one and occam – has contributed major client wins in the financial year, allowing the businesses to enter this period on a firm footing. the cross-fertilisation of knowledge in working practices, new technologies, partnership arrangements with technology providers and organisational structure have contributed significantly to growth in both companies over the past year.” j schwan, ceo and founder of solstice, adds: “we blend resources with tab so utilisation improves considerably for both businesses. electrolux customers can now ask alexa or google home to turn their air conditioner on, increase the temperature, set fan speeds and change modes. connecting to drive smart applications for electrolux electrolux find out more about the app business: www.theappbusiness.com find out more about solstice www.solstice.com 16 st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report strategy in action continued acquisition continued when st ives acquired solstice in 2015, the chicago-based business was firmly established as a mobile specialist. seven years after launching, and following its acquisition by st ives in early 2016, the company boasts a market-leading range of capabilities. net debt reduced by £26 million strategic report financial review the analysis of adjusting items is set out in table b above. second half margin improved as these new clients and contracts delivered revenue without the requirement to substantially increase manpower costs. the amount of deferred consideration payable, based upon their budgets and latest forecasts, is set out in table c above. legacy businesses issues arising within marketing activation and books may distract or inhibit the board’s focus on its strategic objectives. retaining staff is a key priority for the group as it continues to invest in new and existing service-orientated businesses. wherever practicable, the group will modify procedures or equipment so that full use can be made of an individual’ s ability. donations are usually made in cash but may include the provision of time and materials to provide added-value services for charities. it also understands the importance of corporate social responsibility and aims to ensure this is reflected in our business practices. the group is committed to building strong working relationships with its suppliers, ensuring that they are aligned on quality, delivery, innovation, risk and compliance. one of these initiatives is ‘girl.code’, which encourages girls at schools in manchester and the local area to study computer science. 35 corporate governance strategic report our figures st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 the process by which the board exercises control is by holding (a) nine scheduled board meetings per annum; (b) an annual board strategy away day; (c) regular meetings of senior management within each of the strategic marketing, marketing activation and books segments which are chaired by an executive director; and (d) regular management meetings of each operation within these segments. the group’s internal audit function consists of two qualified accountants who, as necessary, draw on additional resource from professional services firms. corporate governance board of directors key to committees 37 corporate governance strategic report our figures st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 brad gray chief financial officer appointed: 1 august 2014 committee: experience: brad gray, aca joined the group from grant thornton in 1988, and held a number of finance positions for the following six years. this issue was isolated to clays and did not impact other businesses in the group as our subsidiaries operate on a largely autonomous basis. there exists further opportunity for our businesses to work closer together through collaboration following the senior management changes made within digital and data. details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise. the committee may offer additional cash and/or share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer. however, it is intended that retrospective disclosure, including any such adjustment of targets, will be provided in the directors’ remuneration report within two years. following these impairment’s these cgu’s are supportable but sensitive to short term forecasts which has been appropriately disclosed in note 16. we concur with management that a reasonably possible change in projected revenue growth for service graphics, tactical solutions, data marketing and hive would indicate impairment and it is appropriate for additional disclosure to be provided. there is a risk that revenue may be misstated due to the degree of judgement exercised by management in estimating future costs. statutory loss before tax was adjusted to add back other pension costs classified as adjusting items by the group (£0.5 million). subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments (see below). st ives plc annual report and accounts 2017 101 corporate governance strategic report our figures reasonably possible changes in key assumptions the projected revenue growth for service graphics is highly dependent on a limited number of key clients and is subject to the risk of pricing pressure exerted by retail clients. remaining amortisation period 2017 2016 (months) £’000 £’000 customer relationships: amaze 56 2,249 2,730 incite 31 2,553 3,541 response one 49 4,398 5,477 tab 6 298 894 solstice 19 755 1,217 other customer relationships 349 482 10,602 14,341 remaining amortisation period 2017 2016 (months) £’000 £’000 proprietary techniques: hive 21 3,026 4,754 pragma 62 1,244 1,485 realise 79 5,768 6,644 solstice 91 7,679 8,589 tab 102 10,450 11,680 other proprietary techniques 959 1,673 29,126 34,825 17. available for sale assets 2017 2016 £’000 £’000 carried at fair value: unlisted shares 3 3 3 3 as at 28 july 2017, the group held a non-controlling interest of 9.0% in ebeltoft corporation limited. ifrs 2 share-based payment has been applied to all share-based rewards made after 11 november 2013 that did not vest before 31 july 2004 as detailed below: long-term incentive plan 2010 (‘ltip’) executive directors and certain members of senior management have been granted nil-cost share options under the company’s long term incentive plan. should you require any further information, please do not hesitate to contact capita asset services on 0371 664 0381. calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.