scs group plc annual report 2017 03 iii ii i. strategic report our stores and distribution centres s scs d d i str i b u ti o n c e n tr e s house of frasers with scs concessions h house of fraser concessions we trade from 100 stores and 27 house of fraser department stores across the country – from aberdeen to plymouth. 4 experienced management team led by david knight, scs’s chief executive officer, the senior management team has many years of combined experience both in their respective areas of expertise with scs, and the markets in which we operate. 09 iii ii scs group plc annual report 2017 i. strategic report scs has a number of key strengths that have supported the growth in sales and profits in the last three years and which provide a strong foundation for further growth. we are delighted to be reporting continued sales growth across all areas of the group for the third year in a row chief executive officer’s review scs group plc annual report 2017 13 iii ii i. strategic report ebitda £1 7.4m +8.4% gross profit £153.7m +3.1% we now operate from 100 stores across the uk, almost all of which are in modern out-of-town retail parks, often alongside competing furniture and floorcoverings retailers. a new store in chelmsford is targeted to open on boxing day 2017. we continue to hold a list of sites identified for potential new stores, and opportunities are consistently pursued and monitored, with plans for further expansion in the coming financial year. the scs business model offers a high quality, competitively priced range of furniture, flooring and related products to our customers with great service – supported by experienced expert staff, modern comfortable stores, an efficient supply chain and low flexible overhead costs – resulting in a great value offer for our customers. convenience our customers can find many of their home furnishing needs under one roof, with 127 locations to choose from around the uk. we now operate from 100 stores across the uk, almost all of which are in modern out-of-town retail parks, often alongside competing furniture and floorcovering retailers. we now operate from 100 stores across the uk, almost all of which are in modern out-of-town retail parks, often alongside competing furniture and floorcovering retailers. management’s assessment of our principal risks is based on impact, likelihood, and any change from the prior year. we have detailed and tested procedures in place for dealing with these types of scenarios when they arise. low high impact consumer finance regulation and compliance credit risk and liquidity property availability & lease cost competition business systems & information infrastructure brand & reputation seasonality/ extreme weather product liability claim our people economic environment supply chain & infrastructure remote highly probable likelihood group principal risks map shows movement in risk. • we offer a range of products and price points in our categories to ensure that customers can trade up or down. • when sourcing products we ensure that at least two factories can produce each product providing resilience. • key aspects of our business activities that have the potential to impact reputation are monitored closely. suppliers are required to provide evidence that the product supplied is compliant with all current regulations. • the board has adopted a succession plan which includes strategy and contingency measures should key individuals not be available. the group continues to hold a significant cash balance and maintains an undrawn £12.0m committed revolving credit facility. in addition, the group operates a whistleblowing policy, aimed principally at our employees, but also available to others working in our supply chains which allows the reporting of any wrongdoing and extends to human rights violations including modern slavery. scs is a growing business and in the last 12 months we have created 104 new jobs across our organisation. using this approach is key to the development of our distribution teams in identifying potential drivers whilst offering career progression and promotion. using technology to deliver some learning interventions means our training can be more cost-effective and highly responsive in terms of identifying best working practices. in recent years our partner sponsorship of their award-winning tackle it and making celebrating 100 stores, by celebrating 100 ‘good causes’ as part of our celebrations for reaching 100 stores nationwide, we wanted to say a big ‘thank you’ and give something back to each of the local communities that supported us on our journey from one local store in sunderland to 100 across the uk. we also played an active role in great north snowdogs’ tyne and wear’s biggest ever mass-participation public art event. • employee trevor jumped into action to raise funds for bradley lowery’s fight against neuroblastoma taking up the challenge of a sponsored skydive. key strengths key strengths retail, finance, strategy, marketing retail, strategy, marketing, supply chain financial and risk management, sales and operational planning, restructuring, change management finance, financial reporting, governance, risk management finance, corporate finance, investment appraisal, restructuring retail, strategy, marketing, supply chain external appointments external appointments displayplan holdings limited displayplan limited the navy, army and air force institutes the royal air force charitable trust enterprises brambledown aircraft hire n brown group plc 888 holdings plc b&m european value retail s.a. welcome to yorkshire ltd. sun european partners llp sag advisory 1 ltd dreams holdco ltd dreams topco ltd ffx ltd nobia ab stiga s.a. whales and dolphins conservation society scs group plc annual report 2017 37 iii ii. key strengths key strengths retail, finance, strategy, marketing retail, strategy, marketing, supply chain financial and risk management, sales and operational planning, restructuring, change management finance, financial reporting, governance, risk management finance, corporate finance, investment appraisal, restructuring retail, strategy, marketing, supply chain external appointments external appointments displayplan holdings limited displayplan limited the navy, army and air force institutes the royal air force charitable trust enterprises brambledown aircraft hire n brown group plc 888 holdings plc b&m european value retail s.a. welcome to yorkshire ltd. sun european partners llp sag advisory 1 ltd dreams holdco ltd dreams topco ltd ffx ltd nobia ab stiga s.a. whales and dolphins conservation society scs group plc annual report 2017 38 corporate governance statement role of the board the board is committed to high standards of corporate governance. on 22 october 2014, sun capital partners management v, llc entered into a relationship agreement with the company. a long-term incentive plan was awarded during 2017 the details of which can be found in our 2016 annual report. details of the average increase given to other employees is detailed on page 51. there will be no change in pension provision or benefits framework for executive directors. the executive directors are also provided with private medical insurance and life assurance that provides cover of up to four times base salary. pre-bonus ebitda £16,514,528 £19,254,675 £20,932,013 £22,609,350 % maximum 12.5% 50% 75% 100% david knight £53,550 £214,200 £321,300 £428,400 chris muir £30,000 £120,000 £180,000 £240,000 bonuses are calculated on a straight-line basis for performance between target levels. *** david knight and chris muir opt to receive part of their pension contributions as a cash allowance. in addition, where the committee considers it appropriate to do so, additional relocation expenses may be paid. as the regulations require a formal cap for a three-year period, future bonus potential will only increase where appropriate against market data and, in any event, will be subject to an overall maximum of 200% of salary for any executive director. corporate governance i remuneration element purpose operation maximum long-term incentives awards may be made annually of £nil-cost options based on performance conditions. also the company employee share incentive plan (sip), which was adopted prior to admission has been launched. • if a new executive director’s salary is set on appointment below the median market rates, phased increases (as a percentage of salary) above those granted generally to other employees may be awarded subject to the individual’s performance and development. there are no enhanced provisions on a change of control under the executive directors’ service contracts. remuneration element purpose operation maximum non-executive directors fees helps recruit and retain high quality, experienced individuals. no person has any special rights over the group’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. this applies to recruitment, training, career development and promotion for all employees, regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin. as such there is a material balance of inventory greater than one year old which gives rise to a risk that this aged stock may be unsaleable and therefore not held at the lower of cost and net realisable value. no material exceptions were noted and we concurred with the provision held by management for aged stock items. we tested on a sample basis the year-end debtor amount to invoice and subsequent receipt post year end. it has one trading entity, a. share & sons limited, and three uk based holding companies including scs group plc. accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. 22. financial commitments the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below: land and buildings plant and machinery 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 2017 £’000 2016 £’000 group within one year 493 525 503 384 within two to five years 27,369 17,303 3,327 2,784 after five years 146,726 163,225 – – 174,588 181,053 3,830 3,168 scs group plc annual report 2017 83 iii. the group does not undertake any speculative transactions and continues to pursue prudent treasury policies by investing surplus funds only with reputable uk financial institutions. all shares carry equal voting rights and are deemed to be controlled by scs group plc.