we currently trade from an estate of 69 bars located predominantly in town or city centre high streets. 2017 continued operational progress attractive premium brands positioned for growth, with constant innovation ensuring a differentiated customer proposition. *** adjusted ebitda excludes exceptional items and bar opening costs (see reconciliation table on page 18 of the financial review). > constantly innovating to ensure that we offer our customers a market-leading range of cocktails and spirits. in parallel, deltic has also stated that it continues to evaluate a possible cash offer for the group. mike foster was appointed as chief financial officer (and to the board) in early june 2017 . *** adjusted ebitda excludes exceptional items and bar opening costs (see reconciliation table on page 18 of the financial review). if stonegate does exercise its right to reduce the amount of consideration payable for each revolution share by the amount of any dividend (or other distribution) that has not been paid, revolution shareholders will be entitled to receive and retain that dividend (or other distribution). at the heart of that progress is our focused strategy to: > build customer loyalty, ensuring that all visits to our venues are an excellent experience; > drive continued profit improvement from existing sites; and > expand the estate into new profitable locations. we do not take anything for granted with employees in all areas of our business contributing fully to this goal. our two brands currently list in the region of 100 different cocktails and change menus four times per annum to ensure that there is always something new. we regularly introduce specials to determine whether a new dish could become part of the regular menu. > our people development teams are continually enhancing training and recruitment programmes to ensure that we have front line staff capable of providing outstanding customer service. we do not take anything for granted with people in all areas of our business contributing fully to this goal. driving profit improvement from existing sites requires a focus on both sales and costs, which is integral to the way that all our teams are managed. revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 06 driving profit improvement from existing sites driving profit improvement from existing sites requires a focus on both sales and costs, which is integral to the way that all our teams are managed. *** adjusted ebitda excludes exceptional items and bar opening costs (see reconciliation table on page 18 of the financial review). our efforts to meet these structural challenges have not been quick enough, but we are introducing new systems that will result in improved labour scheduling and better control of this significant cost. use of branded products, premium pricing and a highly invested, quality environment appeals to aspirational customers, particularly females. with our bars being situated in town and city centre locations, we believe there is significant scope for expansion. large headroom available in the uk for new sites with a potential of 150 over both brands 150 revolution revolución de cuba 3 / 2 scotland 7 / 3 north east 10 / 2 midlands 2 / 1 wales 12 / 3 south east 7 south west 14 / 2 north west 1 northern ireland revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 08 aberdeen mark mcquater chief executive officer the pipeline being developed is considerable and we would expect to be able to open at least six sites per annum for several years onwards. 3 national estate we have a trading portfolio of 69 bars located predominantly in town or city centre high streets operating under the revolution and revolución de cuba brands. revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 10 2017 attractive positioning for growth highly experienced management team with proven track record. performance in 2017 > +23 per cent growth in premium cocktails > blended iced cocktails accounted for 11 per cent of cocktail sales > new food specials range and fresher food content > pre-bookings for christmas ahead of last year future focus continued investment and design in the brands, combined with food and drinks innovation, to ensure we remain leading edge with premium brands. *** adjusted ebitda excludes exceptional items and bar opening costs (see reconciliation table on page 18 of the financial review). notwithstanding that, certain sites deliver more profit than others and the group’s profits are sensitive to this. market expectations rely on the group sourcing and developing a number of suitable sites per annum. macroeconomic factors, such as employment levels, interest rates and consumer confidence, can be important influences on disposable income. to mitigate this risk, the group employs specialist rent review advisers, who deal only with tenant reviews. mitigation is in place through a four-year deal (signed april 2015) giving continued surety of supply. *** adjusted ebitda excludes exceptional items and bar opening costs (see reconciliation table on page 18 of the financial review). this improvement has been predominantly driven by improvements in profit conversion from the five openings in the prior period and improved terms on a number of product supply arrangements, which helped gross margin improve by 0.8 per cent. we anticipate seeing further profit improvements at these sites in the coming period and, ultimately, for adjusted ebitda*** conversion to exceed 20 per cent. *** adjusted ebitda excludes exceptional items and bar opening costs (see reconciliation table on page 18 of the financial review). further improvements in both sales and profit are being achieved at these venues that will drive the returns higher. people the group’s performance as an employer is measured twice yearly through our internal “quality of life” survey. the group employs around 2,743 people and, through its proven growth strategy, is committed to creating more careers for our teams. our talent development activity ensures that we maintain a strong pipeline of managers to lead and grow the business. all team members are entitled to a 50 per cent discount on food and drink purchased within our bars. the group sets out strict specifications for all products so that high standards of quality are met. mark mcquater chief executive officer – appointment date: 12 march 2013 mark joined the group as chief executive officer in march 2013. he studied economics and accountancy at edinburgh university before qualifying as a chartered accountant with thomson mclintock (now kpmg) in edinburgh. in 1994, mark joined the board of pub group jd wetherspoon plc as its first managing director. in 2005, barracuda was the subject of a £262 million management buy-out financed by charterhouse capital partners. chris chambers resigned his position in february 2017 and stepped down from the board with effect from 6 may 2017. revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 25 corporate governance senior management the business address of each senior manager is 21 old street, ashton-under-lyne, tameside ol6 6la. prior to joining the business, godfrey worked for housing project ltd and shapstone investments ltd. he has developed and been responsible for all new group sites since 1999, as well as overseeing the group’s existing estate capital expenditure programme. kate eastwood sales director kate initially joined the business as a catering consultant in june 2013, becoming the group’s director of business development in october 2013, with a remit including food management, advance sales and customer insight. prior to this fiona was hr director for five years at grosvenor casinos, a division of the rank group. michael shallow was performing these functions prior to 1 january 2017 before his designation as “senior” independent director and he has also been and is available to shareholders if they have concerns with contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive officer or other executive directors where their issues have failed to be resolved, or for which such contact is inappropriate. each director’s individual experience and background will be taken into account in developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements. revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 29 the board communicates with shareholders in a number of different ways. the committee ensures that performance-related pay structures will not raise environmental, social or governance (“esg”) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. policy table element operation opportunity performance metrics base salary to attract and retain key individuals. salaries will normally be reviewed annually against performance, experience, responsibilities, relevant market information and the level of workforce pay increases. the majority (if not all) of any bonus will be determined by financial measures with only a minority being paid for achieving threshold performance levels. for executive directors, performance conditions will be linked to those used under the corresponding psp award. the service agreement is terminable by mark mcquater or revolution on not less than 12 months’ prior written notice. mike foster’s employment is terminable by him or revolution on not less than six months’ prior notice. nbs has no connection with revolution bars group plc other than in the provision of advice on executive remuneration. the committee reviews its relationships with external advisers on a regular basis and believes that no conflicts of interest exist. for each executive director, their performance-related bonus is based 80 per cent on an annual scorecard of financial performance metrics and 20 per cent on personal strategic objectives that reflect key drivers of the business, such as new openings, customers, quality and staff. this bonus will also be wholly payable in cash and subject to recovery provisions for three years from date of payment. 4 sean curran left on 31 august 2016 but under the agreed severance arrangements was paid until 10 may 2017. revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 44 corporate governance remuneration report continued for the 52 weeks ended 1 july 2017 directors’ interests and shareholding guidelines (audited) the following table shows directors’ interests in the company: director beneficially owned at 1 july 2017 outstanding ltip awards outstanding share awards under all employee share plans total interest in shares shareholding as a % of base salary at 1 july 2017 mark mcquater 813,720 1,415,706 — 2,229,426 606% sean curran — — — — n/a chris chambers — — — — n/a mike foster — — — — 0% keith edelman 30,500 — — 30,500 n/a michael shallow 12,750 — — 12,750 n/a jemima bird 12,750 — — 12,750 n/a all executive directors are expected to hold an investment of at least 100 per cent of base salary in company shares. other members of management, particularly senior financial managers, are invited to attend depending on the matters under discussion. its work is supported by external consultants on both of these matters and as part of these arrangements annual contracts are in place to provide at least two audit visits per annum by fully qualified health and safety advisers. the group also employs four full-time stock-takers who are checking stocks and various other related compliance matters such as cash counts on a risk assessed basis. the classification of spend on leasehold improvements between operational and capital expenditure is inherently judgemental. based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. depreciation policies and useful economic lives are reviewed at each statement of financial position date. operating segments an operating segment is a component of the group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the group’s other components. sensitivity of the provision recorded to these key assumptions is included in note 16. recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment (note 11) > assets that are subject to amortisation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. exceptional items and bar opening costs are further detailed in note 3 to the financial statements. judgement is therefore applied in determining the element of internal employment costs which are directly attributable to capital projects. 3. operating expenses 52 weeks ended 1 july 2017 £’000 53 weeks ended 2 july 2016 restated* £’000 administrative expenses 12,697 10,203 sales and distribution 82,959 74,580 total operating expenses 95,656 84,783 exceptional items administrative expenses: – professional fees for aborted corporate transaction — 1,063 – other exceptional fees (see below) 239 — – termination of directors’ contracts 190 329 – impairment of property, plant and equipment 1,476 — – movement on onerous lease provisions 1,964 (997) – charges arising from long-term incentive plans 483 987 total exceptional items 4,352 1,382 during the year the group was subject to significant senior personnel changes in its finance function and as a result of identifying some significant accounting adjustments undertook a full accounting review. this included professional fees incurred for an aborted corporate transaction and the contract termination costs relating to sean curran’s resignation as chief financial officer. a sensitivity analysis has been performed on each of these key assumptions with other variables held constant. increasing the pre-tax discount rate by 1 per cent would result in additional impairments of £0.1 million. all cash balances are held with reputable banks and the board monitors its exposure to counterparty risk on an ongoing basis. market interest rate risk arises from the group’s holding of interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities. if interest rates at each period-end reporting date had moved by 5 per cent, the impact on results would not have been significant. all working capital requirements are financed from existing cash resources and a revolving credit facility. they are presented in pounds sterling, with values rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. summary there is no impact on the income statement or statement of cash flows for the period ended 2 july 2016. a summary of the combined impact of the prior year adjustments on the consolidated statement of financial positions as at 2 july 2016 and at 27 june 2015 arising from the restatement are as follows: statement of financial position as at 2 july 2016 2 july 2016 as published £’000 share-based payments £’000 2 july 2016 restated £’000 non-current assets 29,650 — 29,650 non-current assets 29,650 — 29,650 amounts owed from subsidiary undertakings — 1,268 1,268 net assets 29,650 1,268 30,918 statement of financial position as at 27 june 2015 2 july 2015 as published £’000 share-based payments £’000 2 july 2015 restated £’000 non-current assets 29,650 — 29,650 non-current assets 29,650 — 29,650 amounts owed from subsidiary undertakings — 281 281 net assets 29,650 281 29,931 revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017 96 revolution bars group plc registered number 08838504 registered address 21 old street ashton-under-lyne tameside ol6 6la broker numis securities ltd the london stock exchange 10 paternoster square london ec4m 7lt registrar capita asset services 71 victoria street london sw1h 0xa financial pr instinctif partners 65 gresham st london ec2v 7nq statutory auditor kpmg llp 1 st peter’s square manchester lancashire m2 3ae tax advisers grant thornton uk llp 4 hardman square spinningfields manchester m3 3eb legal advisers (corporate) macfarlanes llp 20 cursitor st london ec4a 1lt legal advisers (property) shoosmiths hardman street spinningfields 3 hardman st manchester m3 3hf legal advisers (licensing) kuits 3 st mary’s parsonage manchester m3 2rd woods whur 38 york place leeds west yorkshire ls1 2ed financial statements corporate information revolution bars group plc 21 old street ashton-under-lyne tameside ol6 6la revolution bars group plc annual report and accounts 2017