development of the foodservice channel is also an ongoing target for growth alongside any business acquisitions that meet our criteria. finally, on behalf of the board i would like to thank everyone who works at finsbury for delivering another successful year. john duffy chief executive officer achieving e ffi ci e n cy 6 finsbury food group annual report & accounts 2017 since joining the company in 2009, our team has been keenly focused on creating strong foundations and a competitive cost base to ensure that we are in a solid position to weather industry-wide challenges. this trend looks set to continue for some time with high profile butter price hikes, driven by increased demand and a supply shortfall, the most significant example in recent months. this has seen the installation of a new automated whole cake line in an upgraded bakery at our cardiff site. both of these will enable future growth aligned to changing consumer demand for premium, healthy and authentic product ranges across different market channels. • johnstone’s food service ltd is based in east kilbride and produces bite style cake products, including its renowned caramel shortcake. the full product range extends to loaf, sharing and celebration cakes which have all been developed in partnership with mary berry's original recipes. baked using specific baking processes that produces a loaf with great flavour through its fermentation process is made without any additives such as emulsifiers and enzymes. this decrease is driven by continued focus on overhead control, operational improvements and efficiencies from record levels of capital investment. dialogue with shareholders the board maintains a general policy of keeping all interested parties informed by regular announcements and update statements. we are keen to engage our employees by providing an environment where they can contribute their own ideas and challenge those of others. for a sample of debit notes and bank payments we evaluated whether these represented unrecognised deductions against in year revenue. the financial statements for the company have been prepared in accordance with uk accounting standards and applicable law (uk generally accepted accounting practice), including financial reporting standard 101 reduced disclosure framework (“frs 101”), these are presented on pages 72 to 81. it should be noted that current liabilities exceed current assets. for goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each period end date. 55 finsbury food group annual report & accounts 2017 notes to the consolidated financial statements 10. intangibles intangible assets comprise customer relationships, brands and goodwill. the group has entered into three interest rate swap arrangements in order to hedge its risks associated with any fluctuations. iii) foreign exchange risk the group currently supplies uk manufactured products to lightbody stretz ltd, its 50% owned selling and distribution business trading primarily in europe. notes to the company’s financial statements 82 finsbury food group annual report & accounts 2017 registered office maes y coed road cardiff cf14 4xr tel: 029 20 357 500 registrars capita registrars 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu company secretary one advisory limited 201 temple chambers 3-7 temple avenue london ec4y 0dt tel: 020 7583 8304 auditor kpmg llp chartered accountants 3 assembly square britannia quay cardiff bay cf10 4ax nominated adviser and broker cenkos securities plc 6.7.8 tokenhouse yard london ec2r 7as solicitors cms cameron mckenna llp cannon place 78 cannon street london ec4n 6af remuneration committee adviser deloitte llp four brindleyplace, birmingham, b1 2hz registered number 00204368 advisers 83 finsbury food group annual report & accounts 2017 designed and produced by www.rare-breed.co.uk photography by david hares and mike abrahams products with a mixed sources label support the development of responsible forest management worldwide. company controlled sources are controlled, in accordance with fsc standards, to exclude illegally harvested timber, forests where high conservation values are threatened, genetically modified organisms, violation of people’s civil and traditional rights and wood from forests harvested for the purpose of converting the land to plantations or other non-forest use.