read about progress with sra737 on page 5 operational highlights • lead cancer drug candidate sra737 (formerly cct245737), a novel chk1 inhibitor, licensed for clinical development and commercialisation to nasdaq-listed company sierra oncology, inc. by sareum’s co-investment partner, crt pioneer fund (september 2016). in disease models, sareum’s compounds demonstrated good oral bioavailability, were well tolerated and showed tumour reduction of up to 80% (october 2016). successful conclusion to the biomedical catalyst funded feasibility study for tyk2, with lead compounds showing tumour regression in a disease model of t-all. this enables us to access drug discovery expertise throughout the world with a very flexible cost base. sareum focuses on developing new therapies against biochemical targets where existing preclinical or early clinical data are available. the company is investigating its tyk2 inhibitors in several solid tumours and blood cancers at leading academic centres worldwide. a lead candidate is in preclinical development funded by sareum’s chinese partner, hebei medical university biomedical engineering center, and these studies suggest good tolerability at the predicted therapeutic dose. preclinical studies are expected to complete in h2 2018. read more on page 7 colorectal, head & neck, non-small cell lung, ovarian and prostate cancers bladder, pancreatic cancers aml, all t-all, alcl, colon cancer target lead optimisation candidate selection preclinical phase 1 clinical potential indications aurora+flt3 tyk2 chk1 (sra737) autoimmune cancer psoriasis, ra, lupus, ibd, ms chemotherapy combination monotherapy ra: rheumatoid arthritis ibd: inflammatory bowel disease ms: multiple sclerosis t-all: t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia alcl: anaplastic large cell lymphoma aml: acute myeloid leukaemia all: acute lymphoblastic leukaemia strategic report sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 3 sareum made important progress during the year ended 30 june 2017 across its key development programmes. sareum aims to take advantage of the substantial values associated with out-licensing programmes at these stages. more importantly, however, sareum has gained an experienced, highly committed and well-funded development partner for sra737 in sierra oncology. the company continues to engage with potential partners with a view to securing commercial licences for its products and programmes, while exploring new research programmes from its in-house drug discovery platform, as well as external early stage opportunities that can be potentially in-licensed and progressed into the clinic. finally, i would like to thank our shareholders for their continued support and look forward to providing further updates on progress in 2018. dr stephen parker chairman 18 october 2017 “ sareum has gained an experienced, highly committed and well-funded development partner for sra737 in sierra oncology.“ stephen parker dphil non-executive chairman strategic report sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 4 important clinical progress with sra737, a novel chk1 kinase inhibitor sra737 (formerly cct245737) is a potent, highly selective, orally bioavailable small molecule inhibitor of chk1, a key regulator of important cell cycle checkpoints and central mediator of the dna damage response (ddr) network. these data have led the company’s partner, sri international, to investigate advanced lead molecules in disease models of lupus, and promising initial efficacy has been observed. several of these studies are being carried out in leading academic centres worldwide under material transfer agreements. this reduces the high capital cost of running in-house laboratories, minimises ongoing development risks and provides access to best-in-class expertise for its programmes. to date this has been done through its drug discovery platform, skil ® (sareum kinase inhibitor library), where new compounds targeting cancer and autoimmune diseases are identified. preclinical development safety toxicology, formulation and quality control studies are performed in the laboratories of cros. sareum has historically raised the majority of its funds from investors via licensed brokers and this continues to be an option. we also seek collaboration partners whose own due diligence reaffirms our assessment of a candidate’s potential. under the articles of association, all directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years. one third of the directors retire by rotation at every agm and are eligible for re-appointment. the internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. corporate social responsibility sareum is a small, motivated team of professional people, which operates to high standards. it meets at least once a year to review salaries and share option schemes for the directors. we examined journals posted around the year end, specifically focusing on areas which are more easily manipulated such as accruals, prepayments, bank reconciliations and tax. funds are maintained in sterling and foreign currency is acquired on the basis of committed expenditure. details of share options granted can be found in note 23 to the financial statements, share-based payment transactions. share-based compensation reserve cumulative fair value of share options granted and recognised as an expense in the income statement. 21. related party disclosures disclosure regarding the remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 4, employees and directors. transactions between the company and its subsidiary, sareum limited, which is a related party, have been eliminated on consolidation.