readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. this includes adjustments for certain other items charged to operating profit that do not reflect the underlying business performance. see page 23 for where this measure is fully reconciled back to operating profit as presented in the income statement. combined with the continued leveraging of our critical national infrastructure we are well placed to benefit from emerging market opportunities, such as 5g. arqiva has invested circa £800 million in the past five years allowing it to develop its communications infrastructure and technology as markets evolve. the group’s unique site locations and national footprint play a crucial role in supporting these coverage obligations; including our increased exclusive access to municipal street furniture which now covers 14 london boroughs. arqiva also owns both hd-enabled dtt multiplex licenses that provide services to freeview and other dtt-related platforms including youview. the final sites for this phase will be completed during autumn 2017, taking commercial local dab coverage to over 91%. arqiva is targeting the use of its existing m2m networks in key sectors such as utility infrastructure operations, asset management optimisation and smart building enablement. recurring revenues from the group’s dtt multiplexes increased mainly as a result of new channel launches and other items. operating cash flow after capital and financial investment activities was £332.5m, an increase of 46.7% from £226.6m in the prior year. risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level and term for deposits with any single counterparty. in addition, a trial at selkirk was successfully completed which has helped to inform the uk government’s viewer support policy. the group engages closely with programme stakeholders to ensure any minor delays and remedial plans are actioned in a timely manner. as new technologies emerge and legacy equipment is replaced arqiva looks for the most environmentally-friendly ways to dispose of redundant hardware. the canada pension plan investment board was incorporated as a federal crown corporation by an act of parliament in december 1997. the group has in place a crisis management plan for public relations and external communications to provide support should there be any major events. this followed arqiva’s announcement in february of a partnership deal with samsung to run the first uk 5g field trials. risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level and term for deposits with any single counterparty. we also compared this to the consistency of past and future gross margins, obtaining explanations for variations where necessary. there were no material differences arising between the group fair values of derivative financial instruments recognised and our valuations. cash received or invoices raised in advance is taken to deferred income and recognised as revenue when the services are provided. assets in the course of construction for production, supply or administrative purposes, are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. when a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash- generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. fair value measurement ifrs 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. risk in this area is limited further by setting a maximum level and term for deposits with any single counterparty. capital commitments commitments for the acquisition of plant and equipment contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised as a liability are payable as follows: 30 june 2017 £m 30 june 2016 £m within one year 44.3 21.9 within two to five years 4.8 0.5 total capital commitments 49.1 22.4 operating leases future minimum operating lease payments for the group in relation to non-cancellable operating leases for land, buildings and other infrastructure locations fall due as follows: 30 june 2017 £m 30 june 2016 £m within one year 31.6 29.4 within two to five years 94.9 91.9 after five years 141.7 148.2 total future minimum operating lease payments 268.2 269.5 other annual lease commitments fall due: 30 june 2017 £m 30 june 2016 £m within one year 1.8 1.6 within two to five years 1.7 1.4 total future minimum operating lease payments 3.5 3.0 annual report and consolidated financial statements 2017 118 arqiva group limited (company reg 05254001) 29 disposal of business on 1 november 2016 the group sold its 100% interest in the ordinary share capital of arqiva wifi limited, a subsidiary undertaking.