i am pleased to see that the ashfield team has integrated seamlessly with diurnal staff and are rapidly implementing our launch plans. meeting milestones, building our future chairman’s statement it is with great pleasure that i report on the significant progress diurnal has made this financial year towards becoming a world-leading, endocrinology-focused specialty pharma company. i would also like to thank my fellow board members for the progress made this year in overseeing a strategy that will ensure continued and sustainable growth from our pipeline. key elements of diurnal’s structure are: + a core internal team covering development, regulatory, manufacturing, supply chain and commercialisation, in addition to administration. building a flexible and responsive organisation read more about chronocort® on page 20 20 diurnal employees consultants and contractors development + regulatory + clinical operations + pharmacovigilance + medical monitoring + statistics manufacturing + formulation + clinical supplies + analytical services + scale up + validation commercial + market access + medical liaison + sales + pharmacovigilance + packaging + supply chain 4 diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017 chronocort ® + modified-release hydrocortisone preparation, initially targeting congenital adrenal hyperplasia in adult patients. + phase ii proof-of-concept study planned to commence in 2018. sirna + short interfering rna oligonucleotide therapy for patients suffering from adrenocorticotropin-dependent cushing’s syndrome. regulatory opinion indication name infacort ® paediatric adrenal insufficiency 2017 (2019 in us) phase ii in us hypogonadism tbc native oral testosterone hypothyroidism tbc t3 modified- release inflammatory diseases tbc rheumacort ® cushing’s tbc sirna targeted technologies addressing real unmet patient needs a broad pipeline with multiple sequential drug launches planned a strong strategic approach with drugs being targeted for commercialisation strong partnerships and backing from “blue chip” investors congenital adrenal hyperplasia 2019 (2021 in us) adrenal insufficiency tbc chronocort ® phase ii in us execution of clinical studies: infacort 003: statistically significant (p<0.0001) increase in cortisol values to within biological range 2 infacort ® : from concept to commercialisation case study identification of unmet need: no approved hydrocortisone product for paediatric cah and ai patients commercialisation commercial organisation in place in key european markets and distribution agreement executed for israel design of optimal product: flexible dosages for optimal treatment; paediatric friendly taste-masked dose form global supply chain global manufacturing and packaging agreements executed for commercial supplies regulatory (puma) submission patient access programme patient access programme initiated to facilitate access for patients who have no other treatment options microcrystalline bead hydrocortisone layer seal coat taste making coat 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 unpalatable bitter taste formulations that are challenging to administer imprecise, inaccurate and highly variable dosing that risks over- or undertreatment 1 1. kauzor et al. (2014) 2. clinical endocrinology (2017) strategic report diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017 6 “ we envisage a very busy 12 months ahead, with a number of key events that will position the group well to achieve its vision.” 7 diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017 ceo q&a q&a what is your vision for diurnal? + secondary hypogonadism usually results from a benign tumour of the pituitary gland that causes hypopituitarism and may occasionally be congenital. 10 diurnal group plc _ annual report 2017 business model and strategy strategic report our vision helping patients’ everyday needs diurnal aims to develop and commercialise products to address unmet patient needs in chronic endocrine (hormonal) diseases, typically where there is either no licensed medicine or where current treatment does not sufficiently improve patients’ health. diurnal’s product candidates are protected by a wholly-owned patent portfolio, benefiting from granted or pending patents in key jurisdictions, along with strong protection through orphan drug designations. compounding is not a licensed method of producing medicines; it can be highly variable and may result in inaccurate dosing to patients. over time, revenues from planned product launches in europe and the us should provide a natural hedge for operating expenses. similarly, chronocort ® has orphan drug designation in europe which is expected to provide ten years of market and data exclusivity upon receiving regulatory approval. the fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. the group has used a binomial model and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each statement of financial position date. 6 finance income year ended 30 june 2017 £000 year ended 30 june 2016 £000 interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 182 63 total finance income 182 63 7 finance expenses year ended 30 june 2017 £000 year ended 30 june 2016 £000 total interest payable on loans 272 133 total finance expense 272 133 8 taxation the group is entitled to claim tax credits in the united kingdom under the uk research and development (r&d) small or medium-sized enterprise (sme) scheme, which provides additional taxation relief for qualifying expenditure on r&d activities, and includes an option to surrender a portion of tax losses arising from qualifying activities in return for a cash payment from hm revenue & customs (hmrc). the group manages its liquidity risk by monitoring existing and committed funding against forecast requirements (with particular reference to non-discretionary expenditure). the company’s registrars are open between 09.00 – 17.30, monday to friday excluding public holidays in england and wales) or you may photocopy this form.