— under the etinde transaction, access to further $40m (net) carry for two appraisal wells (including testing) and $25m at fid. — completed organisational restructuring commensurate with our non operated portfolio giving rise to significant general and administration (g&a) cost reductions. with new leadership and a fresh approach, we are looking forward to the value of our assets being recognised in the bowleven share price as we continue to progress in 2018. chris ashworth non-executive chairman contents strategic report who we are ifc corporate highlights and outlook 01 bowleven at a glance 02 ceo statement 04 strategic framework 06 operating review 07 corporate social responsibility 10 ceo financial review 11 risks and internal controls 12 corporate governance chairman’s statement 15 board of directors 16 corporate governance 18 directors’ report 20 directors’ remuneration report 23 statement of directors’ responsibilities 28 financial statements independent auditor’s report 29 primary statements 33 notes forming part of the financial statements 41 shareholder information notice of annual general meeting 66 glossary 69 advisers and registered office 71 cameroon olhp-1 mlhp-7 olhp-2 douala basin rio del rey basin etinde permit bomono permit bowleven plc annual report and accounts 2017 02 bowleven at a glance an africa-focused oil and gas company bowleven plc has strategic interests in key hydrocarbon licences in cameroon. key stats bowleven plc annual report and accounts 2017 03 strategic report corporate governance financial statements our portfolio etinde the etinde permit (formerly mlhp-7 block) was awarded an exploitation authorisation in july 2014. the production sharing contract based permit has a term of 20 years with an option to extend for a further ten years. our discussions with vog to date have suggested that there are limited prospects of negotiating more favourable commercial terms. in bomono, we have maintained the farm-in option with victoria oil & gas plc (vog), which allows us to leverage their infrastructure, but as a non- operator. a right-sized organisation, london-based, that is fit for purpose withdrawal from new exploration activity de-risk bomono develop existing asset – etinde relentless focus on capital discipline bowleven plc annual report and accounts 2017 07 strategic report corporate governance financial statements operating review progressing our assets in cameroon a significant milestone will be the commencement of appraisal drilling in 2018, key to ensuring that etinde’s full potential will be maximised. the board does, however, approve an internal audit programme annually under which various specific reviews of business activities are carried out. responsibilities for organising these reviews, including utilising external consultants as appropriate and reporting back, are assigned within the organisation. on behalf of the board eli chahin chief executive officer 7 november 2017 chris ashworth chairman bowleven plc annual report and accounts 2017 15 strategic report corporate governance financial statements chairman’s statement delivering value for all shareholders 2017 has been a transformative year for bowleven, both in terms of its board and its operating model. they shared their analysis of the group’s historic strategy, which had pursued expensive and unsuccessful exploration activities that resulted in significant value destruction to shareholders. with david clarkson, we were a newly constituted board, determined to refocus the company’s strategy on maximising value from our existing bowleven is now better aligned to delivering long-term value for all shareholders and the operating model and balance sheet strength will ensure that can happen. directors also have access to independent professional advice at the company’s expense and receive appropriate training where necessary. in accordance with the company’s articles of association, all directors are required to retire by rotation every three years, when they can offer themselves for re-election, if eligible. in april 2017, a remuneration committee was reconstituted with formal terms of reference which are available from the company on request. in addition, market announcements, including group operational updates, are also released, as and when appropriate, to update shareholders on activities. these tend to comprise a mix of presentations and one-to-one or group meetings which are held at various times during the year. shareholders and other interested parties can also register on the group’s website to receive news updates by email. our discussions with vog to date have suggested that there is little or no prospect of improving on the above commercial terms. on 19 february 2016 first oil went into administration flng floating liquefied natural gas g&a general and administration giip gas initially in place government cameroon government group the company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries hsse health, safety, security and environment ias international accounting standards ifrs international financial reporting standards ia investment association jv joint venture km kilometres km 2 square kilometres lng liquefied natural gas lpg liquefied petroleum gas lti lost time incident ltip long term incentive plan lukoil lukoil overseas west project ltd, a subsidiary undertaking of oao lukoil macquarie macquarie capital (europe) limited mmbbls million barrels mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent mmscf million standard cubic feet of gas newage newage (african global energy) limited, a privately held oil and gas company newage group newage and its subsidiaries nomad nominated adviser ordinary shares ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the company p10 10% probability that volumes will be equal to or greater than stated volumes p50 50% probability that volumes will be equal to or greater than stated volumes p90 90% probability that volumes will be equal to or greater than stated volumes pea provisional exploitation authorisation psc production sharing contract q1, q2 etc.