these assets are invested across the wide range of funds and shares we offer on our platform. philip brings considerable experience as a plc cfo and expertise from across the financial services industry. together i believe chris and philip are a great combination to lead the business into its next phase of growth. in may 2017 , i announced my intention to stand down as chairman once a suitable replacement had been appointed. this will ensure that we have an appropriate range of skills and experience on the board going forward. this is explained fully in the directors’ remuneration report and i hope you will be supportive of these changes at our upcoming agm. conclusion it has been a real privilege to have served as your chairman for the past eight years. mike evans chairman 14 august 2017 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 06 strategic report hargreaves lansdown at a glance our vision is to be a household name we want to be the best place for savers and investors in the uk. hargreaves lansdown firmly believes that government has a role to play through improving financial education, addressing the savings gap and by empowering companies like us through proportionate regulation to help provide the solutions and education. addressable market managing investments in one place with a trusted company that makes things easy is an ambition for many investors and this consolidation process is a journey that many of them go through with us given the range of client offering we have. a significant amount of this investment pool will have been initially advised upon, maybe many years ago, but now receives no ongoing advice. within this population there are key segments for us such as peak savers, pre-retirement and retiring which alone hold c£900 billion. transfers come from across the market spectrum, showing our appeal to clients who currently hold assets elsewhere. these statistics clearly demonstrate the significant opportunity to gather more assets into our core isa products. the savings allowance is capped at £4,000 per annum and can be used towards a deposit on a first home worth up to £450,000 or towards saving for retirement, whereby, after their 60th birthday individuals can withdraw all the savings free of tax. the auto-enrolment programme has delivered demonstrable successes and we expect future government policy to build on this. our corporate vantage service is directed at segments of this market and existing schemes we administer will also benefit from auto-enrolment contributions. auto-enrolment is undoubtedly helping and has brought millions of new savers into the pension system. the growth of money purchase pensions is mirrored by a rapid decline in traditional defined benefit schemes. whatever changes in detail occur, we are confident that government support for increased private pension provision is robust and this is likely to mean continued tax advantages and policy decisions designed to promote increased retirement saving. our research shows that there is a further £1.3 trillion of cash held in the uk. previously i’d used cash isas, but my fixed rate deal was coming to an end. 1 provider 81,000+ accounts lifetime isa first to launch on 6 april 2017 14,550+ clients corporate vantage 387 schemes 82,000 members £2.5 billion aua portfolio+ ready-made investing managed by experts, £682 million aua portfolio management service our discretionary managed solution, £3.5 billion aua hl active savings cash management service – in development other services annuities, foreign currency service, vcts, certificated share dealing £79.2 billion assets under administration 954,000 active clients growing aua and clients delivers increased revenue opportunities through our diversified offering strategic report governance financial statements other information 13 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 high client satisfaction and high retention rates grow aua scalable platform 68% operating profit margin scalability delivers high operating profit margins and can also be used to benefit clients scalable growth key revenue streams are recurring in nature providing high quality earnings. by attracting net new business and providing incredible service we are well positioned to grow revenues across the market cycle. provides an indicator of how widely our clients are using hargreaves lansdown throughout their financial life. 1.3 (2016: 1.3) strategic change, regulatory website visits provides a view of the engagement and reach that hargreaves lansdown has with its digital footprint. visits to our website from mobiles and tablets have now overtaken those via personal computers. provides an indicator of how widely our clients are using hargreaves lansdown throughout their financial life. 1.3 (2016: 1.3) strategic change, regulatory website visits provides a view of the engagement and reach that hargreaves lansdown has with its digital footprint. visits to our website from mobiles and tablets have now overtaken those via personal computers. 44.6p (2016: 37 .3p) strategic change, conduct, regulatory, prudential, market, interest rates hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 16 i am delighted to introduce my first chief executive’s review. i am proud to be leading a business that has clients at the heart of how it operates. however, we also saw a significant uplift in client share trading and associated revenues which carried on throughout the year. having been uncertain as to demand for this, we surveyed our clients, determined there was real interest and went live just after midnight on 6 april 2017 . an important enhancement this year was the launch of our new mobile app in february. as a result, we now see more digital contact from mobile devices and app visits than through our traditional desktop site. we have worked hard to build on feedback from our colleague survey and improve engagement. looking forward i am pleased that we have delivered strong 2017 results in an environment where the uk has many challenges. global politics are unsettled, our position with europe in a state of flux and markets continue to be uncertain. at the same time, society is going through long-term changes in demographics meaning that people are older for longer. people are not making sufficient provision for this so the country has a long-term savings gap of an estimated £314 billion 3 . 44% of uk investors now claim to deal with their investments themselves, up from 29% in late 2013 4 . this was a strong result given first half nnb was held back during a period of low investor confidence after the uk’s vote to leave the european union on 23 june 2016. however, with hindsight, these flows were a good outcome against the wider environment as we maintained our platform market share and increased our stockbroking market share over this period. strategic report governance financial statements other information 21 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 the table breaks down net revenue, average aua and margins earned across the main asset classes which our clients hold with us. funds remain our largest client asset class at 57% of average aua (2016: 57%), and the net revenue margin earned on these this year was 41bps (2016: 44bps). this causes some dilution to the margin over time as clients grow their portfolio of shares. in addition, £0.8 million was written off fixtures and fittings following a refurbishment of the head office. following our decision in june 2017 not to proceed with launching a p2p lending platform, we also wrote off £1.2 million of previously capitalised costs. profit before tax hargreaves lansdown’s success is built around the service we provide to our clients. as a result, we were able to maintain our operating margin at an industry leading 68% (2016: 67%). we believe this attractive operating margin allows us considerable flexibility to balance our client service and shareholder obligations across the market cycle. this includes cash on longer-term deposit and is before funding the 2017 final dividend of £96.6 million. the group also funds a share purchase programme to ensure we avoid any dilution from operating our share-based compensation schemes. this is in line with eps growth and maintains the ordinary dividend payout ratio at 65%. it considers the group’s profitability, cash flows, dividend payments, capital requirements and other key variables such as exposure to principal risks. • loss of data or inability to maintain our systems resulting in client detriment and reputational damage. we believe that doing the right thing for clients and employees makes great business sense. information on our website is easy to find, application processes only ask for the information we really need, and if you contact us by telephone you will be put through directly to a person rather than an automated telephone system. we also offer an employee assistance programme (eap) which is intended to help employees deal with personal problems that might adversely impact their work performance, health and well-being. we have used the ghg protocol corporate accounting and reporting standard (revised) and emission factors from uk government’s ghg conversion factors for company reporting 2016. in order to provide an intensity ratio for our emissions disclosure, we have calculated our greenhouse emissions per employee. to enhance our internal communications a new team have been tasked with ensuring that key leadership messages are communicated and cascaded across the business. commercially, and for best practice reasons, we are an equal opportunities employer and believe that to succeed as a business we need to make the most of the potential of our people whoever they are. we have an executive committee member responsible for our diversity and inclusion programme, which ensures we have the appropriate level of focus in this area to back up our commitment with meaningful action and positive change. philip brings considerable experience as a plc cfo and expertise from across the financial services industry. strategic report governance financial statements other information 35 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 in may 2017 , i advised the board of my intent to stand down from the position as chairman once a suitable replacement has been identified. this will ensure that we have the appropriate range of skills and experience going forward. i look forward to receiving your feedback at and in advance of our agm on 11 october 2017 . mike evans chairman 14 august 2017 36 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 chairman executive directors non-executive directors mike evans, fia chairman chris hill, aca chief executive officer philip johnson, aca chief financial officer christopher barling senior independent director shirley garrood, aca non-executive director stephen robertson, frsa non-executive director jayne styles non-executive director appointed to the board chairman from december 2009, non-executive director from september 2006 april 2017 (chief financial officer from february 2016 to september 2016 and deputy chief executive officer from october 2016 to april 2017) april 2017 august 2010 october 2013 october 2011 october 2015 skills, competence and experience mike is an actuary with extensive financial services experience. jayne brings a wealth of relevant financial services knowledge, including current executive strategic, governance and operational experience as chief investment officer at ms amlin, where she is responsible for running their £6 billion plus global multi-asset, multi- manager portfolios. jayne brings a wealth of relevant financial services knowledge, including current executive strategic, governance and operational experience as chief investment officer at ms amlin, where she is responsible for running their £6 billion plus global multi-asset, multi- manager portfolios. any searches for board candidates, and appointments made, are based upon merit against objective criteria. induction our chairman, with support from the company secretary, is responsible for preparing and implementing a personalised induction programme for all new directors, to include guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of the company. all staff under the scope of these rules are required to perform certain training annually. this plan is the backbone around which performance can be measured and agendas framed, with a follow up session planned for december 2017 . it also ensured these were all appropriately accounted for in the 2017 report and financial statements. overall, the committee is satisfied that there are appropriate arrangements, actions or mitigating controls in place. the committee has chosen to review its effectiveness by means of a self assessment questionnaire this year. we have delivered this balance through retaining an annual performance bonus with a strong focus on rewarding short-term performance and through greater deferral of annual bonuses into hargreaves lansdown shares, a proposed new approach to long-term incentives and by increasing the minimum shareholdings which our executive directors will need to build. we have further developed our approach, culminating in the revised remuneration policy now being presented for approval. this year has also seen a number of changes to our executive leadership, with the appointment of a new chief executive officer (ceo) and chief financial officer (cfo), and so the committee has sought to determine appropriate packages for these individuals. this growth has translated into a strong financial performance, with net revenues and profit up year-on-year. this deferral will be wholly in nil cost options; and • increase the minimum shareholding guideline for our executive directors from two times base salary to three times base salary, to be built up over six years. further details as to how bonuses have been determined are set out in the annual report on remuneration. base salary will ordinarily increase by no more than the average of relevant staff increases. unvested nil cost options under the sustained performance plan and previous ltip are not included. provision of tax efficient benefits such as pension contributions, additional holiday, childcare vouchers and workplace parking is available through a salary sacrifice mechanism. some company services are provided at a reduced cost on the same basis as for all other employees. previously there was no formal link to the average of relevant staff increases; • annual bonus – the maximum opportunity has been reduced from five times base salary to three and a half times base salary. deferral is now wholly into nil cost options whereas previously it could optionally be deferred entirely into cash; • sustained performance plan – under this new plan, annual awards of nil cost options of up to half times base salary will be granted, with a five year vesting period. possible disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement services and the cost of a settlement agreement. all non-executive directors’ fees including those below are paid in cash on a quarterly basis. the non-executive directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension, or to participate in any group employee share plan. some group services are provided at a reduced cost, on the same basis as for all other employees. the committee will also consult with professional advisers to ensure we consider current market and industry practices, where appropriate. following a competitive tender process the committee also engaged willis towers watson to provide market benchmarking for the directors and selected senior roles below director level, they also provided an update on executive remuneration market trends. this was increased to £600,000 from 9 february 2017 when he assumed the responsibilities of chief executive officer. non-deferred bonus awards are subject to clawback for three years from the date of award. name of director year gross basic salary 4 £’000 cash bonus £’000 deferred element of bonus – shares £’000 gain on historic options vesting £’000 pension £’000 totals £’000 ian gorham 1 2017 348 360 240 220 – 1,168 2016 500 1,085 465 – 21 2,071 chris hill 2 2017 508 825 550 344 6 2,233 2016 179 263 112 – 4 558 philip johnson 3 2017 103 145 97 – – 345 2016 – – – – – – 1 ian gorham’s remuneration shown is for the period until he stepped down from the board on 9 february 2017 . philip johnson received £4,250 (2016: £ – ) in lieu of pension contributions as he has previously taken lifetime protection. for each executive director, their overall bonus has been determined by reference to the following target and maximum levels: on-target bonus opportunity for 2017 (% of base salary) maximum bonus opportunity (% of base salary) ian gorham none 400% chris hill 235% 400% philip johnson 206% 400% these opportunities have been pro rated to reflect each individual’s time in role during the financial year. 14,550 lisa accounts have been opened in the year to june 2017 and £36 million is invested through us. ian gorham objective committee’s assessment deliver a new strategic plan achieved deliver financial results to the satisfaction of shareholders in a risk-controlled environment half year financials strong although new business flows disappointing deliver the successful launch of hl active savings not achieved maintain client satisfaction achieved support and promote focus on people development achieved ensure a complete and robust handover of responsibilities achieved chris hill objective committee’s assessment deliver the results and financial plan strong year end numbers deliver operational efficiency while maintaining service levels service levels maintained but work continues on driving out operational efficiency review and strengthen the finance team achieved deliver financial results to the satisfaction of shareholders in a risk-controlled environment strong year end numbers deliver the successful launch of hl active savings targeting live proposition which is ready to launch in december 2017 maintain client satisfaction client service measure at highest ever level, but ambition remains for even greater heights support and promote focus on people development really strong support and hl tech launched philip johnson objective committee’s assessment deliver success in the hl group’s financial metrics achieved design and implement a plan to make sustainable development to operations function progressing well get settled in and immersed, building relationships with the exec team achieved deliver year end to timetable and improve shareholder communications on track summary the committee concluded that chris hill’s performance was above target and that of ian gorham and philip johnson were on target. note that saye options were granted at a discount, on the same basis as for all employees. under the current policy chris hill has until 30 june 2019 to obtain a one times base salary shareholding. 72 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 directors’ remuneration report annual report on remuneration current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: name of director beneficially owned at 30 june 2016 beneficially owned at 30 june 2017 outstanding subject to continued employment outstanding subject to continued employment, arising from deferred bonus outstanding subject to continued employment, arising from recruitment award outstanding ltip awards with performance conditions no of share options vested but unexercised at 30 june 2017 no of share options exercised in the year shareholding guideline (multiple of base salary) shareholding as a multiple of base salary achieved at 30 june 2017 ian gorham 332,628 139,628 1,565 89,139 – 115,000 33,036 20,974 two times over three times chris hill – 14,363 1,750 9,050 12,200 50,000 – 27,100 one times 0.3 times philip johnson – 30,612 1,702 – – – – – one times 0.9 times pension no directors or employees participate in a defined benefit pension scheme. staff, senior management and executive directors may opt out of the scheme should they wish. the committee confirms that no excess retirement benefits have been paid to current or past directors. payments for loss of office (audited) it was announced in september 2016 that ian gorham had decided to step down as chief executive officer. he subsequently stepped down as ceo on 9 february 2017 , and will remain with the group until 30 september 2017 to ensure a smooth transition. papers have been submitted by the executive risk committee covering a variety of emerging risks. topics which have been discussed by the committee include a variety of systemic, regulatory, political, technological and internal change risks. regular topics of discussion included it security, strategic projects and the development hub in warsaw. this amount represents approximately 33.3% of the company’s total share capital in issue as at 14 august 2017 . our vantage sipp offers online management, low costs, award-winning service and a wide investment choice. independent auditors’ report to the members of hargreaves lansdown plc strategic report governance financial statements other information 91 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 our audit approach context hargreaves lansdown plc is listed on the london stock exchange and its principal activity is the provision of regulated investor investment services to uk retail clients. • specific audit procedures were also performed over consolidation adjustments, balances that could be tested at a group level which included intangible assets, staff costs, cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and material movements through the consolidated statement of changes in equity. we tested the inputs of our recalculations by agreeing standing data, such as fee structures, commission rates and security prices to supporting evidence on a sample basis. we tested the remaining asset and transaction based revenue within the two in-scope reporting units which included other income and an element of stockbroking commission on a sample basis, agreeing each revenue item sampled back to supporting documentation. together these two financially significant reporting units represent 99.5% of the group’s profit before tax. an entity was considered to be financially significant if it contributed more than 5% of consolidated profit before tax. specific audit procedures were also performed over consolidation adjustments, balances that could be tested at a group level which included intangible assets, staff costs, cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and material movements through the consolidated statement of changes in equity. it relates to services provided in the uk and is stated net of value added tax. the group does not operate in more than one location and, as a result, no geographical segments are reported. salary ranges are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market generally for employees of comparable status, responsibility and skills. dividend income from investments is recognised when the rights to receive payment have been established. deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. awards granted under the executive option scheme range between vesting at grant date and a maximum of ten years. amortisation is provided, where material, on all intangible assets excluding goodwill at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its estimated useful life as follows: customer list – eight years the customer list relates to an acquired book of business and does not include internally generated client lists. development work has been undertaken in-house by it staff and management to enhance the key operating systems. the customer list is a separately acquired intangible asset and does not include any internally generated element. the impairment impacted both “assets under construction” and “computer software”, leading to a loss of £1.2 million. other impairments have been made in the period to computer software with a carrying value of £0.1m. where the group holds deposits on unbreakable terms greater than three months, these are classified as receivables. year ended 30 june 2017 £m year ended 30 june 2016 £m financial liabilities trade payables 375.5 556.8 social security and other taxes 8.0 7.3 other payables 13.1 3.9 396.6 568.0 non-financial liabilities accruals 14.3 13.4 deferred income 0.6 0.3 411.5 581.7 in accordance with market practice, certain balances with clients, stock exchange member firms and other counterparties totalling £374.9 million (2016: £555.5 million) are included in trade payables, similarly with the treatment of trade receivables. 116 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 notes to the group financial statements – consolidated statement of financial position section 2: assets and liabilities 2.10 provisions provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the group will be required to settle that obligation. the group reassesses whether it controls a subsidiary when facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more elements of control. directors and staff are eligible for a slight discount on some of the services provided. instruments included in level 1 comprise primarily equity investments and fund units entered into on a counter-party basis. the fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. hargreaves lansdown’s financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice. there is an exposure to interest rates on banking deposits held in the ordinary course of business. the maximum amount of time that these deposits are outstanding at year end is 13 months. the credit risk on liquid funds is minimised by only depositing with uk-regulated banks and the group takes a conservative approach to treasury management, carrying out regular reviews of all its banks’ and custodians’ credit ratings. the group completes its assessment of regulatory capital requirements using its icaap under pillar 2, which is a forward looking exercise that includes stress testing on major risks, such as a significant market downturn, and identifying mitigating action. investments in the funds have been designated at fair value through profit or loss (fvtpl). ** no financial statements are prepared as the company is in its first period under incorporation. instead, the company provides a capital contribution to its subsidiaries in respect of these schemes. for more information, please see www.hl.co.uk/finds/hl-funds exp e rts a range of funds offering instant diversification, transparency and insight 141 strategic report governance financial statements hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 other information empowering people to save and invest with confidence 142 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 executive directors chris hill philip johnson non-executive directors christopher barling mike evans shirley garrood stephen robertson jayne styles company secretary judy matthews independent auditors pricewaterhousecoopers llp, london solicitors osborne clarke llp, bristol principal bankers lloyds bank plc, bristol brokers barclays numis securities limited registrars equiniti limited registered office one college square south anchor road bristol bs1 5hl website www.hl.co.uk company number 02122142 directors, company secretary, advisers and shareholder information strategic report governance financial statements other information 143 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 2017 £m 2016 £m 2015 £m 2014 £m 2013 £m revenue 385.7 388.3 395.1 358.4 292.4 commission payable/loyalty bonus (0.1) (61.8) (100.9) (66.5) (23.2) net revenue 1 385.6 326.5 294.2 291.9 269.2 fair value gains on derivatives 2.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 operating costs (126.7) (108.2) (96.1) (83.8) (76.8) operating profit 261.1 218.3 198.1 208.1 192.4 investment revenue 1.2 0.6 1.0 1.8 2.9 other gains 3.5 – – 0.0 (0.2) profit before tax 265.8 218.9 199.1 209.9 195.1 tax (53.8) (41.6) (41.8) (47.1) (46.2) profit after tax 212.0 177.3 157.3 162.8 148.9 non-controlling interests (0.3) (0.4) (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent company 211.7 176.9 156.7 162.2 148.3 equity shareholders’ funds 306.9 253.7 236.6 227.8 196.6 weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted eps (million) 474.73 474.72 473.72 474.37 471.92 pence pence pence pence pence equity dividends per share paid during year 34.80 33.50 32.30 30.29 23.79 basic earnings per share 44.7 37.4 33.2 34.5 31.7 diluted earnings per share 44.6 37.3 33.1 34.2 31.4 1 following the implementation of the retail distribution review in march 2014, the gross reported revenue was boosted by a new revenue stream and at the same time loyalty bonuses paid to vantage clients were significantly increased. note ordinary shares held in the hargreaves lansdown employee benefit trust have agreed to waive all dividends. glossary of alternative financial performance measures strategic report governance financial statements other information 145 hargreaves lansdown ⁄ report and financial statements 2017 measure calculation why we use this measure net revenue margin (bps) total net revenue divided by the average value of assets under administration which includes the portfolio management services assets under management held in funds on which a platform fee is charged. provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin earned on cash held by our clients. provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin earned on shares held by our clients. this is paid on a regular basis as a percentage of qualifying assets ltip long-term incentive plan mifid ii markets in financial instruments directive ii mlro money laundering reporting officer multi-manager funds a range of funds offered by hargreaves lansdown which are managed under the fund of funds format net new business (nnb) represents subscriptions, cash receipts, cash and stock transfers in less cash withdrawals, cash and stock transfers out net new clients represents the net of new clients less lost clients in the period number of new clients unique number of clients holding at least one account (pms, isa, sipp or fund and share account) with a value greater than £100 at the year end nps net promoter score net revenue total revenue less commission paid, which is primarily the loyalty bonus paid to clients organic growth growth in assets under administration can be attributed to two main causes.