this project will research, develop and validate key technologies required to enable the plug-and-play integration of satellite communications into 5g networks. paul walsh chairman strategic report chief executive’s review 4 avanti communications group plc annual report and accounts 2017 our satellites provide high performance, affordable connectivity to governments, businesses and individuals across emea either directly through satellite dishes installed at the user location, or by providing backhaul connectivity to mobile networks. this project will research, develop and validate key technologies required to enable the plug-and-play integration of satellite communications into 5g networks. avanti performed all of its obligations under the contract and had extended payment deadlines for goi to assist with administrative delays. avanti has pioneered the use of ka-band technology, which enables us to service this market at a lower cost than legacy operators. this enables our high throughput satellites to transmit over 10 times more data per satellite than legacy systems, significantly reducing end-user costs and creating a larger addressable market. like other infrastructure companies, avanti’s business model involves significant upfront capital expenditure to launch services and a largely fixed operating cost base. we were also pleased at that point to welcome onto the board craig chobor, michael leitner and peter reed as representatives of key stakeholders. however, if the group increases its indebtedness (e.g. to finance future missions) interest costs may never fall beneath 30% of uk tax ebitda. generally when a balance becomes more than 90 days past its due date, we consider that the amount will not be fully recoverable. all avanti employees also have some responsibility for sustainability, whether it is in their interactions with service providers or making efficiencies to support our environmental aims. from 1997 until 2013, richard was senior vice president and treasurer at loral space & communications inc., a multi-billion dollar us based satellite telecommunications company which owned the fourth largest satellites services company, telesat canada, as well as one of the largest satellite manufacturers, space systems loral. producer and host of multiple global partner events, he was also responsible for the technology-proving, volvo ocean race sponsorship from 2005, which continues. as a board, we monitor closely for developments in legislation, regulation and industry guidelines to ensure that our corporate governance policies are kept up to date and that the board committees take into account all of the latest guidance in their areas of activity. the company secretary attends all board meetings and is available to advise on any corporate governance issues that may arise. management’s consideration of whether or not to provide against amounts due from customers reflects a key judgement. their remuneration accordingly consists of base pay, annual bonus, long term incentive plan (‘ltip’), share options, pension contributions and other benefits such as health care. investments are reviewed for indicators of impairment on an annual basis when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. conversely, if revenues generated by hylas 4 fall materially short of expectations there will be a negative impact to the group’s effective tax rate. in the uk, with effect from 1 april 2017, only 50% of profits above $5m may be offset by losses brought forwards. of the accrued income balance $9.6m (2016: $16.4m) was due from investment grade customers who are either governments or very well established corporations whose underlying customer is a government. avanti performed all of its obligations under the contract and had extended payment deadlines for goi to assist with administrative delays. however, after no payments had been received for a significant period of time, avanti terminated the contract and has initiated arbitration proceedings in london. in addition, the assessment also notably includes hylas 4 cash flows forecast for a period of 19 years following that satellite coming into service. the credit quality of major customers is assessed before trading commences taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors.