we have developed a number of new partnership agreements and continue to roll this programme out around the globe. our rapid cloud platform features a comprehensive suite of self-service tools business users need to automatically extract, integrate, load, transform and enrich data. with the development of new data sets becoming available from clients, partners and third parties this trend will continue. partnerships are already being planned in mainland and northern europe, whilst our us footprint is nearly all partner led. in virtually all cases these grants are competitive and no guarantee can be made as to the likely success of such applications. through this important ongoing work, we will collaboratively deliver a user-driven, user-accepted and user-maintained analytics asset to support hr leaders make the right decisions for their people. charlie served with the british army during desert storm and holds an mba from city university business school, london. supplier payment policy and practice the group does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers. (ii) annual licence fees are recognised 80% on completion of set-up, provided there is no early termination clause within the contract. temporary differences are not provided for the initial recognition of other assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit. the equity component of a compound financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition except on conversion or expiry. c) liquidity risk the group currently holds cash balances in sterling, us dollars and euros to provide funding for normal trading activity. except as otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all deferred taxation timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the statement of financial position date. any further issues of share capital over and above these amounts would require the directors to seek a fresh approval from shareholders. financial statements rosslyn data technologies plc / annual report and accounts 2017 / 55 share listing the company’s shares are listed on aim.