contents overview highlights 01 at a glance 02 investment proposition 04 chairman’s statement 06 strategic report chief executive’s review 08 sustainability 11 our market 12 our business model 14 our strategy 18 financial review 20 principal risks and uncertainties 22 governance directors 24 corporate governance 25 directors’ remuneration report 26 directors’ report 28 statement of directors’ responsibilities 30 financial statements independent auditors’ report 31 group statement of comprehensive income 32 group statement of changes in equity 33 company statement of changes in equity 34 group and company statements of financial position 35 group and company statements of cash flow 36 notes to the financial statements 37 company information 54 take a look at our website for the most up-to-date investor information www.plutuspowergen.com 01 plutus powergen plc annual report and accounts 2017 overview governance strategic report financial statements at a glance ppg is a holding company with subsidiaries and investments focused on the development and operation of flexible energy generation facilities, which play a crucial role in the changing uk energy mix as renewable generation replaces carbon intensive generation. what we do our 20mw ‘flexgen’ sites – which can generate power within 30 seconds of being switched on remotely – provide a vital, low cost solution to assist in balancing the uk’s energy supply on a moment by moment basis. uk power prices have seen recent peaks above £1,500 per mw hour due to outage and generation imbalances; there is therefore a need for a reliable source of power that can be accessed quickly and flexibly during periods when demand exceeds available supply. our model is built upon the ability to earn revenue from multiple markets for flexible power, as well as from secured management contracts read more on pages 14 to 17: • short term operating reserve (stor) • firm frequency response (ffr) • triad • merchant power sales • capacity market – on 15 year contracts finally, we have begun to develop battery projects through our partnership with london & devonshire trust (ldt), which represents c.80mw in our pipeline. focusing on these projects has allowed the company to quickly establish a solid revenue and investment base. our pipeline we have a total pipeline of over 700mw, and will have 120mw of capacity in operation for this winter with a further 140mw at the post-planning stage by the end of 2017. we aim to develop the following types of projects, and are actively working with a company to explore ‘front-ending’ each site using exhaustible (i.e. non-firm) power from batteries or capacitors to allow us to compete in additional balancing markets as well as be more price competitive in existing markets: green fuel 100mw green fuel 60mw gas 80mw gas 700mw green fuel 20mw operational commissioned by year end 2017 permitted in planning for next cm pipeline 03 overview governance strategic report financial statements plutus powergen plc annual report and accounts 2017 investment proposition favourable market drivers on-going structural changes in uk energy supply continue to drive demand for flexible power generation as the proportion of energy generated from intermittent renewable sources continues to grow. overview governance strategic report financial statements 05 plutus powergen plc annual report and accounts 2017 key areas of focus with the commissioning of our inaugural project in plymouth in november 2016, i am delighted to report that we generated a maiden profit at the half year and a trading profit at the year end, before write offs with regard to irrecoverable disbursements for sites that are not going ahead for various reasons. over winter 2016/17, attune energy ltd (our site in plymouth) could have earned c.£1.5-£1.8m by taking advantage of market prices when these spiked. it also gives us additional flexibility in funding our various project types going forward including gas, solarflex and battery power storage. overview governance strategic report financial statements 09 plutus powergen plc annual report and accounts 2017 chief executive’s review continued with gas engines, the economics are such that they are able to run merchant to take advantage of peak prices as well as assist suppliers in managing volatility in their retail power books. looking back over history, peak energy prices suggest these facilities would need to run in the range of 1200-1400 hours per year. we are beginning to look at hybrid technologies whereby both the gas and green fuel sites would be fitted with a storage (or exhaustible) capability, such as batteries. phil stephens chief executive officer 13 september 2017 10 plutus powergen plc annual report and accounts 2017 sustainability our flexible, standby sites facilitate the uk’s increasing reliance on renewable energy. our flexgen facilities are anticipated to run for no more than 150 hours per year in 60 minute blocks of time during peak demand, and may not exceed 300 hours as a result of the commitments made in the planning permission process. despite providing valuable standby generating capacity, each facility is expected to be switched off for more than 97% of the time, ensuring that annualised emissions are minimal. as a result, this new market is likely to complement, rather than remove demand from existing frequency response markets. how we operate proven, modular generation tech- nology we use established, reliable technology based on containerised generators, fired with renewable green fuel and – going forward – gas, and possibly in conjunction with battery storage or independent battery storage projects. non-dilutive finance model by setting up a dedicated entity for each site, we have limited medium-term dilution to existing holding company shareholders. the capacity obligation means providers must be available to deliver energy when needed or face penalties. continue to pursue our limited dilution investment model, holding majority stakes in non-eis funded, standalone flexible generation sites with outside investors where attractive we intend to own majority stakes (typically 80%) in individual entities for future development sites. we will be in a good financial position to develop the majority owned portfolio of gas powered, solarflex and battery storage sites. these fees are expected to continue under current management contracts at an annualised rate of £1.35 million in future periods. 15,000,000 options were granted to each of paul lazarevic, james longley, phil stephens and charles tatnall on 18 the group has achieved considerable growth in fees received during the year, contributing materially to substantially reduced losses and attributable losses per share. the directors have based their opinions on a cash flow forecast, which assumes that sufficient revenue will be generated for working capital purposes and that operating costs will be kept to a minimum until adequate revenue streams are secured. in addition future plans for the group will be funded externally through a mix of debt and equity financing. the multiple revenue streams of each site mean that financial returns, even excluding triad will remain attractive. each 20mw gas project requires capex of circa £12.5m, and will be placed in a newly formed company. until 2005 he was consultant to bolton group, identifying potential investment and acquisition opportunities in a broad range of industry sectors. he was also a co-founder, director and cfo of photobox limited, europe’s leading photo finishers. he is ceo of kinloch corporate finance who are a corporate advisory company based in london and leeds which specialises in capital raising, private equity, venture capital and m&a activities within the sme sector dealing with transaction sizes from £1m to £50m. the board intends, so far as is practicable for a company of its size, to implement certain corporate governance recommendations. no person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. these sites are equity funded by rockpool investments llp and in which we have a 44.5% interest. deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 38 plutus powergen plc annual report and accounts 2017 investments are initially measured at fair value plus incidental acquisition costs. unquoted investments are valued by the directors using primary valuation techniques such as recent transactions, last price or net asset value. retained losses include all current and prior period results as disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income. the directors have based their opinions on a cash flow forecast, which assumes that sufficient revenue will be generated for working capital purposes and that operating costs will be kept to a minimum until adequate revenue streams are secured. given that there is only one continuing class of business, operating within the uk, no further segmental information has been provided. charles tatnall and james longley hold 4,770,000 existing share options each which were awarded prior to the reverse acquisition.