dundee glasgow bellshill boldon wetherby bedford park royal crayford southampton grantham runcorn crewe didcot reading birmingham bristol shepton mallet launceston newcastle -under-lyme owned, stocked owned, not stocked third party conviviality group depot locations conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017 5 strategic report corporate governance financial statements the uk alcohol market today is worth £40 billion and conviviality is responsible for around £1 in every £12 of industry sales (8%), from a product portfolio ranging from a 35p bottle of soft drink to a £15,000 bottle of fine wine. the recent acquisitions resulted in an increase of net debt, however, at year end this was £95.7m, which is below consensus expectations. furthermore 770 customers have recognised the opportunity to improve order accuracy and efficiency by moving onto our digital platform. distribution is managed in-house by the conviviality group logistics operation, primarily on dedicated branded vehicles, with stores typically choosing to receive two, or sometimes three, deliveries per week. chief executive officer’s statement continued all figures are indicative, based on a “typical” bottle of wine and do not include compulsay tendering. be it business, marriage or friendship; in a relationship lasting this many years, both parties evolve and constantly adapt. working with the conviviality team we are confident that we have a robust deliverable shared plan which will help both businesses achieve their mutual goals.” paul miller owner and founder, eden mill conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017 23 strategic report corporate governance financial statements dr. laura catena “although i am the fourth generation of my family making wine, i came to winemaking as my second profession. and in addition, our noble argentine malbec brings daily joy to wine drinkers all over the world, salud! we work on a one to one basis with targeted outcomes and a shared prize but alongside that we actually have huge respect for the people and all those involved with conviviality ‘we like to do business with you.” mark calver commercial director, hatch mansfield conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017 25 strategic report corporate governance financial statements ab inbev “america’s favourite beer brand, bud light, officially landed in the uk in march 2017. it’s no over statement to say that this was one of our biggest ever uk launches. market growth is concentrated in these non-traditional venues, which are more likely to be owned and operated independently change in licensed premises 2016 - 2017 % sport / social club 0% restaurant -2% wine led pub -3% bar / club -5% food led pub 3% hotel 0% other +3% source: cga on trade outlet database the on trade drinks distribution market is estimated to be worth £7.4bn. conviviality retail is extending its investment in the digital space, working to increase engagement at a local level. a major breach or malfunction of these systems would cause significant disruption to the group and its performance. apprenticeship programmes are not just a way for us to find great people they also strengthen our links with the communities where we operate. in addition, the company’s nominated advisor produces a feedback report from those meetings which is made available to all directors. financial measures may include, but are not limited to, earnings per share, free cash flow, revenue, ebitda, net debt, etc. base salaries are reviewed annually, taking into account individual performance, experience, market competitiveness and average increases across the group. under the long-term incentive plan (ltip) annual awards of shares or nil-cost options may be made to participants. other benefits included access to a company driver (primarily for diana hunter), private health care and life assurance. other benefits included access to a company driver (primarily for diana hunter), private health care and life assurance. long-term incentive (ltip) as outlined in last year’s remuneration report, awards were granted to executive directors and members of the senior management team. long-term incentive (ltip) as outlined in last year’s remuneration report, awards were granted to executive directors and members of the senior management team. in addition, executive directors are eligible for a car or equivalent allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance. impairment reviews are carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired. subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. the model features a contract-based five-step analysis of transactions to determine whether, how much and when revenue is recognised. ifrs 16 is also expected to have a material impact on key components within the consolidated income statement as operating lease rental charges will be replaced with depreciation and finance costs. each trading division within conviviality plc wholesales to businesses that retail alcohol via stores, pubs, bars, restaurants and events. conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017 99 strategic report corporate governance financial statements 27. share based payments continued c. bargain booze share incentive plan 2013 the group operates a share incentive plan (sip), approved by hmrc on 14 october 2013, approved by the board on 11 october 2013 and commenced 1 november 2013. all uk resident tax-paying employees of conviviality and its participating subsidiaries are eligible to participate in the sip subject to completing a minimum qualifying period of service of six months. within trade and other payables a number of additional accruals have been made to reflect fair values totalling £4.6 million. kmd enterprises and xcel retail comprise a chain of 15 high quality convenience stores branded as nisa local operating at various locations in the uk. 104 conviviality plc annual report & accounts 2017 28. business combinations continued prior period business combinations matthew clark (holdings) limited on 7 october 2015, the group entered into an agreement to acquire the entire issued share capital of matthew clark (holdings) limited for a total consideration of £199.0 million in cash.