Financial highlights Contribution to sector total Primary growth drivers Process Safety Read more p30 Products which protect people and assets at work. £219m Revenue £42m Operating profit 23% of revenue 20% of operating profit — population growth — increasing environmental regulation — demand for life critical resources Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2 Financial highlights Contribution to sector total Primary growth drivers Process Safety Read more p30 Products which protect people and assets at work. £219m Revenue £42m Operating profit 23% of revenue 20% of operating profit — population growth — increasing environmental regulation — demand for life critical resources Revenue by destination 1 2 3 4 5 36% 22% 16% 16% 10% USA Mainland Europe United Kingdom Asia Pacific Other 1 2 3 4 5 Employees by location 1 2 3 4 5 37% 31% 17% 14% 1% United Kingdom USA Asia Pacific Mainland Europe Other 1 2 3 4 5 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3 Agile & close to customers Valuable application knowledge & technology Proven M&A capabilities Innovation through collaboration Global expansion expertise Strategy-led talent management Long-term market growth drivers Our Business Model and Strategy Inputs £ Financial Our operations are inherently cash generative and the Group has access to competitively priced finance, which provides good liquidity and support for the growth ambitions of Halma. Each business builds strong application knowledge and technology by focusing on its specific market niche where there are often barriers to entry. Halma has had a well-established financial target that aims to double our earnings every five years, without becoming highly geared or seeking further equity, provided there are similar rates of organic, acquisitive and dividend growth. Board members from all Halma companies attended a three-day event which included sessions focused on harnessing new technologies, developing more ambitious growth strategies and understanding the value of strategic partnerships. First prize in the Process award was Fortress Interlocks’ online interactive tool which helps customers easily configure and order customised products from a standard product platform. Outlook Halma operates in a diverse range of market niches where demand is supported by resilient long-term growth drivers. Having an agile and flexible operating model means our businesses can adjust quickly to their markets, as opportunities change. In the last few years, we have added dedicated M&A resources at sector level, making us well placed to continue this successful track record. These chronic diseases are the leading cause of mortality worldwide due to population ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing diets and rising obesity. According to the United Nations, almost 3 billion people in 48 countries will be facing water shortages within 10 years that could cause conflict and political destabilisation. Over 4 billion people (about two thirds of the global population) currently live with severe water scarcity for at least one month a year. As global demand for water resources becomes unsustainable, the value of conservation, improving efficiency and effective monitoring is growing. — The Group’s acquisition model supports retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained. — The Group’s acquisition model supports retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained. We also aim to have wider business continuity plans in place should one or more of our premises suddenly became unavailable. We also aim to have wider business continuity plans in place should one or more of our premises suddenly became unavailable. — Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary to build a direct presence. — Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary to build a direct presence. The second half saw improvements with a combination of stabilised oil prices and positive progress in our diversification strategy. The industrial processes supporting this development are at risk from accidents caused by explosions, radiation, fire, corrosion and other hazards. Sales in the Middle East grew strongly by 37% as oil and gas production has been maintained at reasonable levels. This has improved the business agility, impacting sales, engineering and technical support to provide a better quality of service for customers. Sequential safety products such as trapped-key interlocks ensure human error is removed from a potentially dangerous sequence of events, protecting people and assets. BEA has developed the LZR Flatscan, an extremely small, thin door sensor that uses a laser for detection rather than conventional infra-red. There was significant investment in capitalised R&D programmes and substantial spend on targeted automation of our manufacturing processes. Our new product pipeline is strong, with significant products due to be launched across multiple sub-sectors in the next year. By investing in our current portfolio, and through acquiring additional companies, we aim to deliver growth rates above Group KPI targets. Volk Optical’s Pictor Plus is a handheld digital imaging device that enables convenient, portable ophthalmology in any setting. Currently, one in every three US adults has high blood pressure and only half of these individuals have their condition under control. This market for high-revenue, personal payment premium procedures is of increasing importance to our ophthalmic companies which focus on improved patient outcomes. Telemedicine is growing at almost 19% annually as it offers dramatically different ways to deliver healthcare by sharing information and data across a wide range of service providers. The steady global rise in middle class affluence, combined with urbanisation, means that people are living more sedentary lifestyles which raises obesity and diseases like diabetes. Case study Telemedicine Prevents Baby Blindness Louise Allen, Consultant Paediatric Ophthalmologist for Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge, uses our digital ophthalmoscopes, from Keeler, to diagnose babies’ eye conditions remotely. Two thirds of the world’s population currently live in areas that experience water scarcity for at least one month a year. By looking at specific spectral bands, they provide much more information in far less time than traditional methods, thus allowing for higher efficiency and decreased waste. We are targeting acquisitions in segments that tie to our existing technologies and/or market knowledge, have good long-term growth drivers and defensible positions through regulations or intellectual property. Our decentralised management structure allows local managers to be autonomous and responsible for making timely decisions in the best interests of their business. We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental impact. A senior executive in each of our higher impact businesses is responsible for implementing the carbon policy at local level. During 2017, we are rolling out a programme of online health & safety training with mandatory and optional modules being offered to all employees across the Group. Total Invested Capital, which includes significant US Dollar and Euro assets, has typically been affected by currency movements more than the post-tax return. We benefit from widely claimed R&D related tax incentives, exemptions and reliefs (for example under the UK ‘Patent Box’ rules). This outflow was higher than typical following strong revenue growth in the final quarter leading to increased year end debtor balances. Investment for organic growth All sectors continue to innovate and invest in new products with R&D spend determined by each individual Halma company. Deferred contingent consideration previously provided for of £10m has been released in 2016/17 relating to a specific customer where sales targets will not be achieved. He was Chief Executive Officer at the Sage Group plc from 1994 to 2010 and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young. The Board is also responsible for ensuring appropriate resources are in place to achieve its strategy and deliver sustainable performance. Corporate governance framework Halma companies benefit from a highly decentralised organisational structure which delivers sustainable competitive advantage while maintaining the benefit of being part of a larger group (through collaboration with other Group companies and central investment in areas such as talent development, innovation and international expansion). Shortly after our financial year end, the Board announced that Kevin Thompson, Finance Director, had indicated his intention to retire during 2018. The review is principally based on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks have been identified, evaluated, managed and controlled. Accordingly, it is not envisaged, at the date of this Report, that another competitive auditor tender process will be conducted before 2027. Halma’s strategy is to build a strong competitive advantage in specialised safety, health and environmental technology markets with resilient growth drivers. No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. Initial performance awards were made to executive Directors and selected senior management in July 2015, following shareholder approval of the Plan. There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in line with IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’ where material judgements exist. We further challenged management’s judgement through sensitivity over the key growth assumptions to determine alternative scenarios, and therefore a range of possible outcomes. − Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions – effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Definitions of the Group’s non-GAAP measures along with reconciliation to their IFRS equivalent measure are included in note 3. As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that date; and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards. For trade receivables that are not past due, taking into account good historical collection experience, management records an impairment charge only where there is a specific risk of non-collection. Notes to the Accounts continued Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 158 131 20 Trade and other payables: falling due after one year 21 Deferred tax * Comparatives have been restated, as required by IFRS 3 (revised) Business Combinations, for material changes arising on the provisional accounting for prior period acquisitions. At 2 April 2016 £000 Reclass £000 Cash flow £000 Loan notes repaid £000 Exchange adjustments £000 At 1 April 2017 £000 Analysis of net debt Cash and bank balances 53,938 – 9,043 – 3,846 66,827 Overdrafts (4,412) – 3,222 – – (1,190) Cash and cash equivalents 49,526 – 12,265 – 3,846 65,637 Loan notes falling due within one year (336) (66) – 241 – (161) Loan notes falling due after more than one year (172,112) 66 – – (9,111) (181,157) Bank loans falling due after more than one year (123,796) – 54,761 – (11,726) (80,761) Total net debt (246,718) – 67,026 241 (16,991) (196,442) Notes to the Accounts continued Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 168 141 26 Financial instruments continued Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a consequence of both trading with foreign companies and owning subsidiaries located in foreign countries. Liquidity risk The Group has a syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facility (RCF) which was refinanced on 4 November 2016 and increased from £360,000,000 to £550,000,000. All bank loans bear interest at floating rates where the fixed period is typically no more than three months. Pensions The Company makes contributions to defined contribution pension plans, which are charged against profits when they become payable. Deferred tax assets are only recognised if recovery is considered more likely than not on the basis of all available evidence. Edifici 3, Parc Tecnològic del Vallès, 08290 Cerdanyola Spain Ordinary Shares 100 Visual Performance Diagnostics, Inc. 26895 Aliso Creek Rd, Suite B223, Aliso Viejo CA 92656 United States Common Stock 100 Volk Optical Inc. 7893 Enterprise Drive, Mentor Ohio 44060 United States Common Stock 100 Wilkinson & Simpson Limited (1) United Kingdom Deferred & Ordinary Shares 100* * Directly held by the Company (1) Misbourne Court, Rectory Way, Amersham, Buckinghamshire HP7 0DE Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 193 166 Notes to the Company Accounts continued C6 Debtors C7 Borrowings The Company has two sources of long-term funding, which comprise: − an unsecured five-year £550,000,000 revolving credit facility, which, having refinanced during the year, expires in October 2021 and is therefore classified as expiring within two to five years (2016: within two to five years). A mandate form can be obtained from Computershare or you will find one on the reverse of your last dividend confirmation.