since steve rowe became chief executive, he has set out clear plans to accelerate the pace of change across m&s. having focused on these three pillars – governance, succession and engagement – i believe m&s is now better prepared for the further changes ahead. over 6 5 % of those who c omplet ed the programme went on to ﬁ nd work, either with m&s or other employers. our stakeholders: how we listen & engage governance 45 annual report and financial statements 2017 “the main purpose of building up a great business should not be merely to make money. our consumer barometer gives us a regular snapshot of how consumers are feeling about their household ﬁ nances and the economy in general. we responded by putting over 3,000 more colleagues into the departments where our customers told us they value service most, including fitting rooms, bra fit, men’s suits and footwear. at the same time, households are managing their ﬁ nances carefully due to fears of inﬂ ation and political uncertainty. i would like to thank all our people for their dedication and professionalism in a year of signiﬁ cant but necessary change. outcome: an eff ective sourcing strategy creates sustainable value by driving effi ciencies and margin improvement, while using our scale to deliver great quality at every price point. serve & engage the rationale behind every strategic decision starts with our customer – we want a winning culture built around giving them great products and service. there are a number of risks related to how we deliver ﬁ nancial value: 1. clothing & home recovery 8. margin 11. proﬁ table growth 1 2. third party management see risk p32-33 there are a number of risks related to how we deliver non-ﬁ nancial value: 1. clothing & home recovery 2. food safety and integrity 3. corporate responsibility 4. information security (including cyber) 6. customer proposition & experience 7. talent & succession 9. brand see risk p32-33 there are a number of risks related to how we deliver strategic value: 1. clothing & home recovery 5. technology 8. margin 10. uk store estate 11. proﬁ table growth see risk p32-33 group revenue group proﬁ t before tax and adjusted items adjusted earnings per share dividend per share return on capital employed free cash ﬂ ow (pre-shareholder returns) see kpis p18 total food customers and average number of shops per customer total clothing & home customers and average number of shops per customer employee engagement score percentage of products with a plan a quality greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes) greenhouse gas emissions (per sq ft) see kpis p19 food uk revenue food gross margin food like-for-like revenue growth uk space growth – food clothing & home uk revenue clothing & home gross margin clothing & home uk like-for-like revenue growth international revenue international operating proﬁ t international space growth m&s.com sales m&s.com weekly site visits see kpis p20-21 strategic value created strategic performance risks key strategic measures growth in sales, product range and presence supply chain effi ciency increased customer base with broadening appeal a more dynamic, ﬂ exible and agile business strong proﬁ ts build strong cash position returns to shareholders taxes to government increased investment opportunities employee rewards financial value created financial performance risks financial accountability key ﬁ nancial measures non-ﬁ nancial value created non-ﬁ nancial performance risks key non-ﬁ nancial measures a key outcomes strategic accountability see governance p34-84 see remuneration p66-78 see governance on p34-84 see remuneration p66-78 non-ﬁ nancial accountability board operating committee operational plan a committee advisory plan a committee > > see plan a report board board operating committee operating committee > > non ﬁnancial value created non ﬁnancial performance risks key non ﬁnancial measures non ﬁnancial accountability strategic value created strategic performance risks key strategic measures strategic accountability outputs accountability related risk factors maintained and improved reputation with consumers better trained and fully committed employees stronger relationships with suppliers and communities culture where innovation and agility thrive 16 marks and spencer group plc 6 serve & engage the january edition of our adventures in food customer newspaper was all about the new ranges, with information on some of the more unusual ingredients, tips for ways to eat more healthily and recipe ideas for creating healthy meals at home. as interests have shifted away from dieting, consumers are looking for ways to live healthier lifestyles every day and 8 1 % of our customers tell us that health is their number one concern when buying food. we delivered free cash ﬂ ow up 8.5% on last year mainly due to the impact of reduced capital expenditure, which was partially off set by weaker business performance. we anticipate input cost inﬂ ation will slightly outweigh operational effi ciencies with a resulting decrease in gross margin of between 0 and -50 basis points largely weighted towards the ﬁ rst half. although this programme is in its early stages, over the next ﬁ ve years it will lead to change for some of our people. this year, we took spark something good to another seven cities, with over 4,000 customers and employees volunteering on more than 240 projects. it is now a year since we changed the structure of our womenswear team to focus on product categories rather than brands. the action we are taking will make us more customer- and partner- focused, driving sustainable proﬁ t growth overseas in a capital-light way. the results have seen customer service satisfaction ratings improve, and our people are energised – making every moment special has evolved into a movement within m&s. over half of all sparks visits are made via mobile, making it a crucial sales and communication channel for us. we have identiﬁ ed three new priorities around which all our plan a activity will be based: wellbeing, community and planet. food gross margin was down 25bps year-on-year due to input price pressure as a result of the fall in sterling, and higher than anticipated waste. capital investment was signiﬁ cantly down as we have completed some of our larger infrastructure projects and opened fewer full-line stores than last year. capital management and improving shareholder returns following several years of investment, we now have the infrastructure needed for sustainable growth. under this approach, we are already placing a greater emphasis on cash payback when assessing investments to help improve the reliability of returns. within other store costs, new space drove the increase, with occupancy cost inﬂ ation largely off set by effi ciencies and lower depreciation. m&s bank proﬁ ts were down £9.7m as a result of the reduction in interchange fees, and lower interest bearing balances. we closed our uk deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme to future accrual eff ective from 1 april 20 1 7 resulting in a one-off charge of £ 1 27 .0m. in addition, as we move towards more cloud based software solutions, a larger proportion of costs are now being expensed. through eff ective management of talent & succession, we can ensure our people are best set up for success to deliver business objectives as they evolve. risk description current context mitigating activities 1 clothing & home recovery our future performance will be impacted if we fail to meet customer expectations. early signs of improved performance are being seen in clothing & home following ongoing eff orts to strengthen product style and quality. fraudulent supply chain behaviour, supplier cost pressures, innovation demands and stringent regulatory requirements are just some of the contributors to this risk. from a strong core set of well-established timeless values, we have sought to ensure fairness, integrity and rigour with each decision for all our stakeholders. alison brittain 99 miranda curtis 99 andrew fisher 99 andy halford 99 richard solomons 1 89 this table provides details of scheduled meetings held in the 2016/1 7 ﬁ nancial year. over 6 5 % of those who c omplet ed the programme went on to ﬁ nd work, either with m&s or other employers. the business has a framework with clearly identiﬁ ed individuals capable of covering key management roles on an interim or permanent basis. the policy remains largely unchanged from that approved by shareholders in 20 1 4; for transparency, where amendments have been made these are highlighted. > financial performance measures comprise at least 50% of awards and may include, but not be limited to group pbt after adjusted items. > typically, no payment for individual objectives can be earned unless a ‘threshold’ level of group pbt after adjusted items has been achieved. in line with the uk corporate governance code, all non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at our agm. figure 28: vesting schedule of executive directors' outstanding discretionary share awards maximum receivable at 1 april 201 7 (all discretionary schemes) maximum receivable in: 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 steve rowe 1,208,7 4 1 (300,343) 320,382 588,01 6 patrick bousquet-chavanne 1,002,45 1 (300,343) 276,1 58 425,950 helen weir 768,309 0 276,527 49 1,782 74 marks and spencer group plc directors' report: governance executive directors' remuneration continued remuneration report continued figure 31: relative importance of spend on pay the table opposite illustrates the company’s expenditure on pay in comparison to proﬁts before tax and distributions to shareholders by way of dividend payments and share buyback. as was reported at the time, laura received monthly payments of eight months' salary and beneﬁ ts, which were subject to mitigation. all may attend the committee meetings by invitation but are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration. management has performed a full impairment assessment for all stores, other than those within their shelter period (see below), to determine if the carrying value of these uk assets is supported. capitalised software development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected economic lives, normally between three and ten years. depreciation is provided to write off the cost of tangible non- current assets (including investment properties), less estimated residual values on a straight line basis as follows: > freehold land – not depreciated. this credit largely arises following a decision to retain two logistics warehouses within the network which had previously been identiﬁ ed for closure. you may also choose to have your dividends invested in further m&s shares through our dividend reinvestment plan (drip) (terms and conditions apply). it is unlikely that ﬁrms authorised by the financial conduct authority (fca) will contact you with off ers like this.