AVEVA Engage utilises a uniquely simple touch- driven interface to provide unrivalled decision support through the life of an industrial asset. The Company’s original mission, to develop computer-aided design techniques for use by British industry, has been achieved and indeed greatly exceeded. OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT AVEVA OPERATES IN 30 COUNTRIES, ENABLING US TO SUPPORT CUSTOMERS LOCALL Y ACROSS ALL OF THE WORLD’S MAJOR ECONOMIES. Operate Customers can minimise operational risk, improve change management and increase asset intelligence using one easily accessible contextual digital information source. This gives engineers a clear picture of full information context for all decisions in both normal and critical situations. PEOPLE AVEVA has highly skilled employees across the globe, ranging from those with decades of technical experience to talented graduates. CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS We have over 4,000 customers including many of the world’s leading Owner Operators, EPCs, shipbuilders and industrial conglomerates. Operate Customers can minimise operational risk, improve change management and increase asset intelligence using one easily accessible contextual digital information source. This gives engineers a clear picture of full information context for all decisions in both normal and critical situations. The Company’s original mission, to develop computer-aided design techniques for use by British industry, has been achieved and indeed greatly exceeded. AVEVA Engage utilises a uniquely simple touch- driven interface to provide unrivalled decision support through the life of an industrial asset. – We see a major market opportunity in leveraging our customer base by selling additional engineering software tools, outside of AVEVA’s core 3D design platforms. 26 % Revenues from MT3D in 2017 2 OWNER OPERATORS OOs such as energy and power generation companies currently account for only 16% of our revenue. 18.9% Constant currency revenue growth in North America 4 BROADENING MARKET EXPOSURE AVEVA’s core heritage is Oil & Gas and particularly upstream, offshore. – We see a major market opportunity in leveraging our customer base by selling additional engineering software tools, outside of AVEVA’s core 3D design platforms. 26 % Revenues from MT3D in 2017 2 OWNER OPERATORS OOs such as energy and power generation companies currently account for only 16% of our revenue. 18.9% Constant currency revenue growth in North America 4 BROADENING MARKET EXPOSURE AVEVA’s core heritage is Oil & Gas and particularly upstream, offshore. I am pleased to report that AVEVA delivered a resilient performance during 2016/17 , despite two of our key end markets, Oil & Gas and Marine, remaining subdued. The Company’s original mission, to develop computer- aided design techniques for use by British industry, has been achieved and indeed greatly exceeded. Clarksons Research forecasts a recovery in new ship orders globally, with strong annual growth off the low calendar year 2016 base out to 2020. KEY MARKETS Market drivers and opportunities • A cyclical recovery in shipbuilding as older ships are replaced by newer, more efficient vessels. On a constant currency basis, we delivered good growth with More Than 3D (MT3D), Owner Operators and sales to the Power sector. As part of this, I have simplified AVEVA’s management structure with greater decision-making capabilities and direct accountability for performance being allocated to our regions. I have also added more customer-facing people to our Executive team, including a recently recruited Chief Revenue Officer, who will take overall responsibility for leading Global Sales, Partnership Management and Marketing. As such, we can provide customers with local sales and support in all of the world’s major economies. We are also achieving success in leveraging our existing EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) customer base to sell MT3D products. However, overall our business there was broadly flat during the year, being impacted by tougher market conditions, particularly in shipbuilding. The Sales team has now been equipped to sell these solutions and we have brought on board several major oil Owner Operators as early adopters. AVEVA E3D is the latest generation 3D product which carries a price premium reflecting its higher productivity and advanced feature set. AVEVA E3D grew strongly during the year as existing customers continued to migrate towards it and new contracts were won. STRATEGIC REPORT 19 This is particularly pronounced around materials procurement and construction management, given that many still use in-house systems in these areas. Shipyard customers typically prefer an Initial Licence Fee model, because they view software as a longer-term investment rather than being project specific. CASE STUDY BROADENING MARKET EXPOSURE AVEVA has a high proportion of recurring revenues at 76.9% in 2016/17 due to our ‘right-to-use’ licensing model. This will enable greater collaboration between all parties in the supply chain, and better decision making by asset operators. This is typically associated with the implementation of new installations, customisation to meet specific customer requirements and end user training. STRATEGIC REPORT 25 The results for the year are summarised as follows: £m 2017 Total 2016 Total Reported change Constant currency change 2 Revenue Annual Fees 71.8 63.4 13.2% (0.5)% Rental Licence Fees 94.2 90.6 4.0% (4.6)% Recurring revenue 166.0 154.0 7.8% (2.9)% Initial Licence Fees 32.2 29.4 9.5% (2.7)% Training and Services 17.6 18.1 (2.8)% (13.8)% Total revenue 215.8 201.5 7.1% (3.8)% Cost of sales (14.2) (14.7) (3.4)% (12.2)% Gross profit 201.6 186.8 7.9% (3.2)% Operating expenses 1 (147.0) (135.6) 8.4% (0.9)% Net interest 0.4 – – – Adjusted profit before tax 55.0 51.2 7.4% (8.5)% Normalised adjustments (8.1) (21.8) Reported profit before tax 46.9 29.4 59.5% 31.6% 1 Operating expenses adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets (excluding other software), share-based payments, gain/loss on forward foreign exchange contracts and exceptional items. Market conditions in EMEA have been reasonably stable, but remain challenging for customers with heavy exposure to Oil & Gas. These included restructuring costs of £4.2 million, which were partly offset by factors including an indemnified receivable claim relating to a previous business combination. To aid this process a Risk Committee comprising senior management from each function of the business was formed in 2015/16. AVEVA is expanding into other market segments such as Power, Petrochemical & Chemical and Construction, albeit from a relatively small base. We employ experienced industry professionals within our professional services team and continue to build commercial partnerships with third party systems integrators. 1 4 5 STRATEGIC REPORT 31 FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Likelihood Impact Change Mitigation Strategy Foreign exchange risk Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can be material to the Group, with more than 80% of the Group’s revenue denominated in a currency other than Sterling, of which our two largest are US Dollar and Euro. The overseas subsidiaries predominantly trade in their own local currencies, which acts as a partial natural hedge against currency movements. 1 5 International operations The Group operates in over 30 countries globally and must determine how best to utilise its resources across these diverse markets. These updates receive excellent readership rates and feedback has shown they are a great tool to support our employees in their roles. Each year, every employee completes the Global Corporate Governance and Group IT Compliance training to ensure that we maintain our high ethical standards. In April 2017 , we introduced a new micro survey tool designed to frequently seek employee feedback and opinions on key topics. AVEVA is also an active member, with our CEO as Executive signatory, of the WISE (Women in Science and Engineering) Ten Steps campaign. Nearly 50 new dresses were purchased that day which will have made a huge boost to the street seller’s income. Briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors, usually four working days in advance of Board and Committee meetings. He has also been heavily involved in a number of strategically important change projects for the Company, including organisation design and information systems transformation. PHILIP AIKEN CHAIRMAN TIME ON BOARD: 5 YEARS (APPOINTED 1 MAY 2012) COMMITTEES: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE (CHAIRMAN) JAMES KIDD CHIEF EXECUTIVE TIME ON BOARD: 6 YEARS 4 MONTHS (APPOINTED 1 JANUARY 2011) COMMITTEES: NONE DAVID WARD CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TIME ON BOARD: 10 MONTHS (APPOINTED 8 JULY 2016) COMMITTEES: NONE PHILIP DAYER NON‑EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TIME ON BOARD: 9 YEARS 4 MONTHS (APPOINTED 7 JANUARY 2008) COMMITTEES: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (CHAIRMAN), AUDIT COMMITTEE, NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE REPORT 43 Jennifer Allerton has more than 38 years of Information Technology experience, most recently as Chief Information Officer at F. Hoffmann-La Roche in Switzerland with responsibility for IT strategy and operations for the Pharma division and all Group IT operations from June 2002 to July 2012. This has necessitated the Committee overseeing a transition of work from Ernst & Young to alternative professional services firms and advisers. The Group’s operations are geographically widely spread, which means that in some instances, where assurance over the operation of internal control is considered valuable, there is a clear advantage in such reviews of controls being undertaken by teams with specific local regulatory knowledge and without any local language barrier. Audit partners are rotated every five years and a formal statement of independence is received from the auditor each year. Therefore it is important that we build these key relationships in order to protect and develop our existing business. An advisory resolution will also be tabled in connection with Part B of this report which explains how the existing policy was implemented last year. 31 December 2016 £ 31 March 2016 £ Movement, less Director’s contributions £ Richard Longdon 5,037,614 4,543,317 494,297 James Kidd and David Ward are both members of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan. The Company’s Articles of Association require that at each AGM there shall retire from office (and be subject to re-election by members) any Director who shall have been a Director at the preceding two Annual General Meetings and who was not appointed or re-appointed then or subsequently. If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred. d) Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination’s synergies and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash flows which are independent of other cash-generating units. 2015/16 awards In 2015/16, a total of 253,610 share options were awarded to Executive Directors and senior management under the L TIP . 2014/15 awards In 2014/15, a total of 189,740 share options were awarded to Executive Directors and senior management under the L TIP . 2013/14 awards In 2013/14, a total of 136,886 share options were awarded to Executive Directors and senior management under the L TIP . FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 Corporate information AVEVA Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred. Internal software development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated. AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 118 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Government grants Grants in respect of specific Research & Development projects are recognised as receivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with. Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination’s synergies and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash flows which are independent of other cash-generating units. 863, Piso 7 Col. Napoles, Deleg Benito Juarez Mexico City D.F.03810 Mexico AVEVA do Brasil Informática Ltda Rua Lauro Muller 116 Sala 2202 Torre Rio Sul Botaforgo – Rio de Janeiro Cep: 22.290-160 Brazil AVEVA Chile S.p.A. Avendia Vitacura 2670 Piso 15, Las Condes Santiago de Chile 7550698 Chile 8over8 Limited Northern Ireland Science Park Fort George, Bay Road Londonderry BT48 7TG 8over8 Pty Limited L29, 221 St Georges Terrace Perth, WA 6000 Australia STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123 COMPANY INFORMATION AND ADVISERS Directors Philip Aiken Chairman Philip Dayer Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Christopher Humphrey Non-Executive Director Jennifer Allerton Non-Executive Director Ron Mobed Non-Executive Director James Kidd Chief Executive David Ward Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Claire Denton Registered Office High Cross Madingley Road Cambridge CB3 0HB Registered Number 2937296 Auditor Ernst & Y oung LLP One Cambridge Business Park Cambridge CB4 0WZ Bankers Barclays Bank plc 9–11 St Andrews Street Cambridge CB2 3AA Solicitors Ashurst LLP Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA Mills & Reeve LLP Botanic House 100 Hills Road Cambridge CB2 1PH Stockbroker Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7L T Registrars Capita Registrars Limited The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham BR3 4TU Financial PR FTI Consulting 200 Aldersgate Street London EC1A 4HD AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 124 NOTES ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Engineering and information management software for the Plant and Marine industries WWW.AVEVA.COM AVEVA Group plc High Cross, Madingley Road, Cambridge CB3 0HB, UK