1 £1,007m we also have a growing presence in the home-baking category with brands including our new paul hollywood range of mixes. our key customers are the major uk supermarkets but we also serve a wide range of other channels including: discounters; convenience stores; online; wholesale and food service. uk grocery channel value 2 hypermarkets: £16.5bn supermarkets: £86.6bn convenience: £37.5bn discounters: £17.9bn online: £10.5bn other retailers: £10.0bn 1. kantar worldpanel total market penetration for the 52 weeks to 26 march 2017. as a consequence, we’ve streamlined our organisational structures and this has regrettably resulted in some colleagues leaving the business. strategic report introduction governance financial statements 03 brands • unique portfolio of leading british brands • strong insights into uk consumer • creating innovative new products to meet consumers’ needs • excellent operational capability • ability to manufactur e a diverse range of pr oducts and format s • experienced and dedicated workforce operations we create the food the nation loves most for modern life strategic report business model as a business we believe we have certain capabilities which set us apart from our competitors. in january we announced a major cost reduction and efficiency programme designed to deliver savings of £20m over the next two years. regrettably this has meant over 50 valued colleagues have had to leave the business and we wish them well in their future careers. protect & drive revenues uk • invest in innovation and marketing to drive growth ahead of category levels • further strengthen well established relationships with major customers international • strong double-digit revenue growth strategic partnerships • cadbury and nissin to deliver growth opportunities underpinned by 2 year cost reduction programme logistics restructuring • combining warehousing and distribution solutions sg&a re-sizing • removing complexity and duplication manufacturing & procurement • ongoing cost savings lower pension costs • new agreement with £32m reduction in cash costs over 3 years maintain diversified sources of financing • extended maturity of capital structure tightly focused capital expenditure • maintain at approximately 3% of revenue targeting below 3.0x net debt/ebitda in the next 3–4 years generate value for our shareholders cash generation cost & efficiency premier foods plc annual report for the 52 week period ended 1 april 2017 06 strategic report strategy in action in the uk, growing ahead of our categories continues to be a core objective for us and our plans for international are for further strong growth. this helps us identify key consumer trends such as convenience, health & wellness and indulgence which in turn informs our product innovation strategy. recent examples of new branded product ranges which illustrate this approach to innovation include oxo stock pots, cadbury amaze bites and ambrosia deluxe custard. this was primarily driven by a time lag in the recovery of increased input cost inflation and changing retailer promotional strategies which reduced gross profit. progress we’ve made over the year sg&a costs rose slightly reflecting investment in sales, marketing and product development resource. strategic report operating and financial review sales group underlying sales (£m) grocery sweet treats group branded 482.0 177.5 659.5 non-branded 81.1 49.8 130.9 total 563.1 227.3 790.4 % change branded (4.5%) (0.5%) (3.5%) non-branded 10.7% 11.6% 11.1% total (2.6%) 1.9% (1.4%) statutory revenue 2016/17 563.1 227.3 790.4 2015/16 548.6 223.1 771.7 this financial year has been a challenging one for the industry, with the return of food inflation and changing retailer promotional strategies. the group’s international business unit continues to demonstrate excellent progress and has now delivered ten successive quarters of sales growth. partly offsetting these impacts were sg&a savings, manufacturing cost efficiencies and slightly lower marketing investment in the year. deferred tax assets at 1 april 2017 were £32.4m compared to £25.9m at 2 april 2016. strategic report operating and financial review continued premier foods plc annual report for the 52 week period ended 1 april 2017 12 earnings per share continuing operations (£m) 2016/17 2015/16 change operating profit 61.5 54.5 7.0 net finance cost (49.5) (44.9) (4.6) share of loss from associates – (22.6) 22.6 profit/(loss) before taxation 12.0 (13.0) 25.0 taxation (charge)/credit (6.5) 47.0 (53.5) profit after taxation 5.5 34.0 (28.5) average shares in issue 830.1 826.0 (4.1) basic earnings per share (pence) 0.7 4.1 (3.4) profit before tax was £12.0m in the year, compared to a loss before tax in the comparative period of £13.0m. this was largely due to increased pension deficit contributions, as identified in the table above, and lower operating profit before (non-cash) impairment charges. during the year we removed more than 200 tonnes of sugar, primarily from our cake, desserts and cooking sauce brands. these also reflect our formal obligations under the climate change agreement, carbon reduction commitment and european union emissions trading scheme. strategic report managing our risks corporate governance framework board/audit committee executive leadership team 1st line of defence operational review internal control self assessment management controls documented policies and procedures risk registers risk management financial control treasury committee health & safety food safety internal audit reports quarterly reporting to audit committee internal audit 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence regulatory authorities external audit premier foods plc annual report for the 52 week period ended 1 april 2017 20 changes since last year the business has reviewed its strategy during the year to be more evenly balanced between delivering revenue growth, driving cost and efficiency savings and cash generation rather than being weighted to category and revenue growth. during the financial period grocery revenue growth targets were not met largely due to weather impacts and changes in major customers' promotional strategies. a major logistics consolidation programme is underway which will provide significant cost savings but carries some operational risk during the transition. capital availability may be impacted by market trends which are outside the group's control e.g. us interest rate volatility and global political uncertainty. this could impact margins and/or our ability to invest in other areas of the business such as marketing or capital expenditure. longer-term climate change patterns could also undermine our business model if the product portfolio does not evolve over this period. the group has recently signed non-binding heads of terms to be a strategic global partner with mondelez for cadbury cake. the logistics consolidation programme is being managed through a strong project governance framework including transition planning and risk management activities. jennifer laing pam powell daniel wosner tsunao kijima david beever ian krieger richard hodgson 9.25 0.75 4.0 0.1 average year's service: 3.6 4.4 4.5 2.25 premier foods plc annual report for the 52 week period ended 1 april 2017 24 governance board of directors gavin darby chief executive officer appointed to the board: february 2013. skills and experience: gavin has a strong consumer goods pedigree and extensive senior leadership experience. prior to joining nissin in 2012, tsunao spent most of his career at mitsubishi corporation, where he served as executive vice president. daniel wosner non-executive director r appointed to the board: march 2017 skills and experience: daniel is managing director & head of europe at oasis management company ltd., having joined oasis in 2016, where he is also a member of the firm’s strategies group and corporate governance group. prior to joining oasis, daniel served as head of the asia pacific equity syndicate team at barclays in hong kong. board papers and presentations should continue to focus on the key issues with even greater use of precise executive summaries. copies of press releases, investor presentations, webcasts, conference calls and fact sheets are available on the group’s website. an investor day is held most years to provide investors and analysts with a more detailed insight into the business. significant contracts – change of control the company has various borrowing arrangements including a revolving credit facility and senior secured notes. group performance is taken into consideration when determining an appropriate level of base salary increase for the group as a whole and personal performance is taken into account when determining an appropriate level of base salary increase for the executive. however, includes discretion to pay lower base salary with incremental increases as new appointee becomes established in the role. deferred share bonus plan cfo maximum opportunity as a % of salary 30% performance measures (subject to a trading profit underpin of £131.0m) weighting outcome financial 50% – short to medium-term strategic objectives 50% – 100% – long-term incentive plan (ltip) the current ltip was approved by shareholders in 2011; awards have two elements, performance shares and matching shares. estimation uncertainty impacting revenue the group enters into commercial arrangements with its customers on a regular basis to offer product promotions and discounts. forecast-based valuation as the group has a history of recent losses, there is judgement in determining whether deferred tax assets should be recognised. for the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these. consolidated statement of changes in equity 61 strategic report introduction governance financial statements 1. general information premier foods plc (the 'company') is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in england and wales, registered number 5160050, with its registered office at premier house, centrium business park, griffiths way, st albans, hertfordshire al1 2re. deferred income is recognised for rebates that were received from suppliers at the balance sheet date but relate to contracts covering future periods. inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the same terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties. the directors believe it is appropriate to use a single common discount rate for all impairment testing as each cgu shares similar risk profiles. the group also enters into contracts with suppliers for its principal raw material requirements, some of which are considered commodities, diesel and energy. (iii) interest rate risk the group’s borrowing facilities comprise senior secured notes and a revolving facility, in sterling. (f) financial compliance risk risk the group continues to operate with a high level of net debt of £523.2m (2015/16: £534.2m) and is subject to operating within banking covenants set out in its refinancing agreement agreed with its banking syndicate, which include net debt/ebitda and ebitda/interest covenant tests. an award of free shares was made to all employees in 2014 by the company under this hmrc tax-advantaged plan. these options are equity-settled, have a maximum term of 3.5 years and generally vest only if employees remain in employment to the vesting date.