while every fuller’s beer and pub does stand proudly on its own – each an achievement in its own right – the fuller’s name tells you they have all been crafted with the same passion, care and attention to detail that we bring to everything we do. it will be a long term process, but i look forward to updating you on progress in the coming months and years. craft beers also continued to perform well across the managed estate, with sales increasing of both fuller’s own range and those from other brewers. we have upgraded over 100 of our pub websites with fully responsive, mobile optimised sites where photography is at the heart. it is truly wonderful to see this grand old lady of herne hill once again proudly dominating the local scene. brewer street is available only at fuller’s and we support those tenants that take it on by helping with a promotional starter kit. it still has a full flavour and is served colder, which appeals to today’s craft beer drinker. the perfect delivery 29 we have a fleet of 29 branded delivery vehicles based in chiswick and horndean, hampshire f u l l e r ’ s c r a f t “ it’s the personal relationship we have with our customers that sets us apart. this is where our corporate social responsibility starts and those communities do not just revolve around geographical locations. shooting star chase is an amazing charity that helps improve the lives of children with life-limiting illnesses, both at home and in its two hospices. at the brewery, we have installed solar panels and converted to electric forklift trucks, which will reduce our carbon footprint. and some of them have progressed even further up the fuller’s career ladder – with at least six former service coaches now managing their own pubs. taken together, these communications have allowed the group to engage successfully with all our employees, wherever they are employed. the group also has an equal opportunities policy which is designed to ensure that all employees are treated equally in terms of training, career development and promotion. griffin brewery chiswick lane south london w4 2qb registered in england under number: 241882 42 annual report and accounts 2017 fuller, smith & turner p.l.c. furthermore, all department plans are compiled into a company succession plan which provides effective review of cross-departmental promotion and opportunities. corporate governance report continued attendance 2016/2017 board executive audit remuneration nominations number of formal meetings 7 11 4 4 1 director michael turner 7 * * 1 simon emeny 7 11 * * james douglas 7 11 * richard fuller 7 11 ian bray (until his resignation on 31 may 2016) 1 1 simon dodd (from his appointment on 1 august 2016) 4 7 jonathon swaine 7 11 sir james fuller 7 john dunsmore 7 4 4 1 lynn fordham 6 3 4 1 alastair kerr 7 4 4 * these directors are not members of the committees but are invited to be in attendance at meetings. the company has five non-executive directors, two of whom – sir james fuller and michael turner – are family members. professional development all directors attend training courses, industry forums and specialist briefings relevant to their role throughout the year. the company offers executives a range of benefits which include: — car allowance — paid holidays — life assurance — private medical insurance — product allowance — a private account which allows the purchase of goods at cost price plus vat — subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations — regular medical check-ups — permanent health insurance. executives may be issued and hold share options up to the current maximum value set by hmrc of £30,000 at any one time. the company offers executives a range of benefits which include: — car allowance — paid holidays — life assurance — private medical insurance — product allowance — a private account which allows the purchase of goods at cost price plus vat — subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations — regular medical check-ups — permanent health insurance. executives may be issued and hold share options up to the current maximum value set by hmrc of £30,000 at any one time. non-executive directors receive a modest product allowance and are entitled to buy additional products at cost plus vat. non-executive directors receive a modest product allowance and are entitled to buy additional products at cost plus vat. salary increases will ordinarily be (in percentage terms) in line with those of the wider workforce, and significant variances would only be expected where there had been a significant change in an individual’s responsibilities or a market review had been conducted which suggested that an individual’s salary was no longer competitive, or where the committee wanted to take account of an individual’s performance or experience. bdo llp abides by the remuneration consultants code of conduct, which requires it to provide objective and independent advice. directors’ remuneration report continued payments to past directors anthony fuller, former chairman and now president, receives an annual royalty of £15,000 which is paid in recognition of the fact that mr fuller has given the company ongoing exclusive permission to use his name and signature on any company product. we also determined a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors’ remuneration and related party transactions. the fair value of interest rate swap and cap contracts are determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. own shares shares to be awarded under employee incentive plans and those that have been awarded but have yet to vest unconditionally are held at cost by an employee share ownership trust and shown as a deduction from equity in the balance sheet. transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. they have concluded that such changes will not result in an impairment to any of the cash-generating units at 1 april 2017. due in more than one year: group 2017 £m group 2016 £m company 2017 £m company 2016 £m deferred revenue 0.2 0.4 – – included in other payables is £0.2 million (2016: £0.4 million) of deferred revenue which relates to government grants received for the purchase and construction of plant, property and equipment by cornish orchards limited. interest is payable at libor plus a margin, which varies dependent on the ratio of net debt to ebitda. credit insurance is taken out where appropriate for wholesale customers and goods may also be sold on a cash with order basis. investment properties are let to third parties on leases that have remaining terms of between one and ten years. secretary and registered office séverine garnham griffin brewery chiswick lane south london w4 2qb tel: 020 8996 2105 registered number 241882 auditors grant thornton uk llp grant thornton house melton street london nw1 2ep stockbrokers numis securities limited 10 paternoster square london ec4m 7lt registrars computershare investor services plc the pavilions, bridgwater road bristol bs99 6zz tel: 0370 889 4096 please note: you can now advise computershare of changes to your address or set up a dividend mandate online at www.computershare.com/investor/uk directors and advisors as at 8 june 2017 annual report and accounts 2017 fuller, smith & turner p.l.c. 127 financial statements additional information 2017 diary friday, 23 june record date monday, 3 july preference dividends paid tuesday, 25 july annual general meeting hock cellar, griffin brewery thursday, 27 july final dividend paid friday, 24 november half year results announcement 2018 diary january preference dividends paid interim dividend paid june preliminary results announcement shareholder privileges individual shareholders with at least 500 ‘a’ or ‘c’ ordinary shares or 5,000 ‘b’ ordinary shares are eligible to receive a shareholder ‘inndulgence’ card entitling them to a 15% discount on food and drinks in fuller’s managed pubs and hotels and when visiting the brewery store in chiswick as well as a 10% discount on the best available rate in fuller’s hotels.