vin is a successful entrepreneur with strong operational leadership experience in growing uk-based global technology businesses and associated shareholder value. in a crowded marketplace and within increasingly diverse it environments, we concentrate on making life simpler for the end user without compromising security. an increasing amount of ransomware intercepted by sophoslabs was now seen to be targeting mobile devices, especially android. the group’s security solutions are underpinned by sophoslabs, a world- leading 24/7 threat intelligence operation, employing over 150 people across four continents. this is seen as a significant opportunity, with just 9.6% of customers using both endpoint and utm products today. september 2016 saw the launch of intercept x, an exciting next-generation endpoint protection application, featuring signature-less anti-exploit, anti-ransomware and root cause analytics capabilities. in just two quarters since its launch, more than 8,000 customers have purchased intercept x on the sophos central cloud-management platform. acquisitions in february 2017 sophos announced the acquisition of invincea, inc., a leading developer of advanced next- generation malware protection, consistently ranked as among the best performing signature-less, next- generation endpoint technologies in third-party testing, rated highly both for high detection and low false- positive rates. security continues to be a mission-critical, board-level priority for organisations of every size that only rises in importance with each passing year. kris hagerman chief executive officer 16 may 2017 an early commitment to the cloud has given sophos a real and growing competitive advantage chief executive officer’s statement continued 18 q&a with members of the sophos senior management team michael valentine senior vice president, worldwide sales q. when you talk to customers, what are their most pressing issues? the opportunities offered by msp and iaas models are appealing as more customers move to aws or azure. we are addressing a huge market opportunity that relies on its trusted it resellers for advice, services and products to protect their critical data. sophos is the first vendor to provide persistent, transparent and proactive encryption that protects files across windows, mac, ios or android platforms by default. sophos central, incorporating the new next- generation endpoint product, intercept x, was a key driver for enduser billings growth. retention rates the group’s results are substantially driven by billings generated from subscriptions for its products and services. + 16.5% deferred revenue growth +12.3% constant currency revenue growth introduction strategic report governance financial statements 31 financial review continued underlying general finance and administration expenses have increased by 10.1 percent yoy and have decreased as a proportion of billings as the group continued to leverage its strong back office function. what we are doing about it sophos is committed to investment in its world class virus labs facility with emphasis placed on staff training, testing and quality procedures. what we are doing about it sophos has a dedicated cybersecurity team that is focused on investigation and mitigation of risks related to cyber-attack. sophos india, through its ‘prarambh’ csr initiative has adopted a rural village to uplift the lives of 350 families living there. the board will keep this position under review, and it is their intention to comply in due course. • only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity and best practice. the committee has been conscious of uk institutional investors’ preference for packages to be weighted towards performance-related pay. directors’ remuneration policy 67 introduction strategic report governance financial statements purpose and link to strategy operation maximum opportunity performance metrics fixed pay: pension provide post- retirement benefits for participants in a cost-efficient manner. it is anticipated that no more than 25 percent of aggregate awards in any one year will be over restricted shares or options. further details are set out on page 83. none 71 introduction strategic report governance financial statements chief executive officer $000 13% 25% 62% 25% 25% 50% 100% 5,611 2,811 711 maximum maximum target target minimum minimum chief financial officer £000 17% 24% 59% 32% 23% 45% 100% 1,872 980 310 fixed pay annual bonus ltip notes to the policy table this policy is unchanged in substance since approval at the agm on 14 september 2016. other than minor text changes to ensure this policy remains clear for the reader, a few other minor changes have been made to provide additional clarity, including updated scenario charts shown below. the table below summarises how incentives are typically treated in different circumstances: reason for leaving treatment bonus summary dismissal, resignation awards lapse. 81 introduction strategic report governance financial statements dilution limits it is proposed that sophos will continue to manage dilution within the context of maintaining award levels within a 10 percent limit over five years, the limit that has applied since our incentive plans were approved at ipo. service and non-market performance conditions attached to the transactions are not taken into account in determining fair value. intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash- generating unit level. provided the conditions specified by ias 39 — financial instruments are met, hedge accounting may be used to mitigate this volatility. transfer prices between geographical segments are set on an arm's length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. depreciation and unrealised foreign exchange differences are adjusted as they do not represent cash costs of the business. during the year-ended 31 march 2017, no provisions were made for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties (2016: $nil). outstanding balances with entities other than subsidiaries are unsecured, interest free and cash settlement is expected within 60 days of invoice. these are calculated by applying a single exchange rate to local currency transactions for both the current and prior year.