barnet enfield haringey camden hackney waltham forest redbridge havering barking & dagenham newham tower hamlets city greenwich lewisham southwark lambeth croydon merton wandsworth hounslow ealing brent harrow hillingdon bromley sutton kingston upon thames richmond upon thames h&f k&c westminster bexley islington key traditional area of operation expanded area of operation overview strategic report governance key management information financial statements 03 04 chairman’s statement 06 market overview 08 business model 10 ambition and strategy 12 chief executive’s review 14 financial review 22 principal risks & uncertainties 30 our people 34 health and safety 36 sustainability 38 strategic report vibe e8 completed residential development of 101 apartments in dalston incorporating a new two-form entry primary school shortlisted for housing design award 2017 overview strategic report governance financial statements key management information 05 performance notwithstanding some uncertainty created by the outcome of the eu referendum, we have experienced robust demand for our homes from individual investors and owner-occupiers. a number of core targets have been established within this strategy and we are committed to achieving these in the coming years. proposals including accelerating the planning process, making available more development land and supporting sme builders in order to build sector capacity are encouraging. shareholders we have grown pre-tax profit tenfold since 2012, paying at least one third of earnings as dividends each year. any potential dampening effect of these factors has been outweighed by the structural imbalance between supply and need for new homes in london, particularly at our typical price point. we sell homes early in the development cycle as a means of de-risking projects and advancing investment into new opportunities. since february 2016 we have entered into four build to rent transactions comprising of nearly 500 homes, together worth over £230 million. the board has prepared an income statement and a balance sheet using proportional consolidation along with generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) compliant versions presenting joint ventures as equity investments. joint venture developments are funded outside of the revolving credit facility with site specific loans secured as and when required. katie rogers group financial director 30 may 2017 financial review 28 the liberty building e14 residential development of 155 apartments located close to canary wharf and crossharbour dlr station under construction with completion due in 2019 computer generated images overview strategic report governance financial statements key management information 29 principal risks & uncertainties developing in london: managing risk risk potential impact mitigation commentary attracting and retaining high-calibre employees an inability to recruit and retain employees with appropriate skill sets can introduce cost, delays in bringing developments forward or quality issues. • the group’s strong relationships with various land owners, including local authorities and affordable housing providers, plays a key role in its ability to acquire new sites. employee engagement we undertook our first employee satisfaction survey in july 2016. the response was excellent, and we were extremely pleased that overall satisfaction with telford homes as an employer and intention to be working for telford homes in 12 months’ time were both at levels exceeding 90 per cent. we have a long tradition of completing schemes using innovative building solutions, whilst being risk averse and commercially astute. objective 2: establish innovation working groups for all new developments our projects are thoroughly assessed by project teams and an executive steering group to ensure they meet telford homes’ rigorous standards. since telford homes was founded in 2000, we have not faced any warnings or prosecutions relating to our sustainability practices. executive directors receive benefits in line with market practice, principally life assurance, private medical insurance and a company car/car allowance. in doing so it has undertaken relevant research to ensure that remuneration levels are competitive with the industry average. under the group's annual bonus scheme for executive directors and senior management there is a deferred element to be paid in future years. judgement is required to assess whether the total eventual profit on each contract can be foreseen with reasonable certainty (note 13). this dividend was declared after 31 march 2017 and as such the liability of £6,400,000 has not been recognised at that date. borrowings the group uses loan finance, all of which is denominated in sterling, to acquire development land and undertake site construction.