Our fund managers are independent thinkers and have the courage of their convictions in making investment decisions. Our fund managers are independent thinkers and have the courage of their convictions in making investment decisions. At Liontrust, we have brought together a talented group of fund management teams who believe that rigorous investment processes are key to long- term performance and risk control. They do not get distracted by short- term events and noise but stay true to their own documented investment processes. Like investors, asset management businesses are continually confronted by potential challenges and threats along with plenty of opportunities. Financial advice and fund management will become increasingly, not less, important in the future to help people achieve this. Adjusted profit before tax is disclosed in order to give shareholders an indication of the profitability of the Group excluding non-cash (depreciation, intangible asset amortisation and share incentivisation related) expenses and non-recurring (professional fees relating to acquisition, cost reduction, restructuring, share incentivisation and severance compensation related) expenses (“Adjustments”), see note 5 below for a reconciliation of adjusted profit (or loss) before tax. At a time when the ability of asset managers to grow organically is being questioned, these figures are especially pleasing. This will enhance our client service further through understanding and engaging with a broader range of clients. A reconciliation of fund flows over the financial year is as follows: Total £m Institutional £m UK Retail £m MPS (1) £m Offshore Funds £m Opening AuM - 1 April 2016 4,791 1,138 3,330 204 119 Net flows 482 3 368 32 79 Acquisitions 272 – 272 – – Market and Investment performance 978 255 678 24 21 Closing AuM - 31 March 2017 6,523 1,396 4,648 260 219 (1) Managed Portfolio Services are where we act as discretionary fund manager to a range of model portfolios which are marketed to advisory intermediaries in the UK. We have also delivered value for our investors through strong fund performance over the long term. Our Strategic Objectives Strong long-term performance One of our key objectives is for all Liontrust funds and portfolios to outperform relevant benchmarks and the average returns of their respective peer groups over the medium to long term. Treating customers fairly is central to how we conduct business across all our departments and functions. We maintain a consistent brand across all our marketing activities which reflects the values and culture of Liontrust. We have distinctive branding across all our marketing and sales material that features images of lions. Jamie joined Walker Crips in 2003 and prior to that was a Junior Proprietary Trader at First New York Securities. Liontrust Macro Equity Income Fund, for example, was in the first quartile of its IA sector since launch on 31 October 2003 to 31 March 2017. Liontrust European Growth Fund, for example, was in the first quartile of its IA sector over one year and since launch on 15 November 2006 to 31 March 2017. Simon has been in fund management for 18 years and was previously Head of Global Equities at Aviva Investors. Neil has 14 years’ experience in financial markets and was an SRI Fund Manager at Aviva Investors. Aitken has six years of financial experience and started his career in the graduate scheme at ATI. Olly seeks to achieve these aims through investing in growing companies with low capital requirements that pay out expanding dividends. To produce superior risk-adjusted returns, Olly looks for companies with these characteristics that are also undervalued. Split of AuM By product type: By investment process: 60% 14% 10% 9% 4% > 1% 1% Economic Advantage Cashﬂow Solution Macro Thematic Multi Asset European Income Indexed Structural Opportunities 1% Asia 9% 10% 14% 60% 4% 1% 71% 22% 4% 3% Institutional DPMS Offshore funds UK retail 71% 22% 4% 3% 12 LIONTRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Strategic Report continued Fund performance and Awards UK Retail fund performance The strength of Liontrust’s fund management capability is shown by the weighted average AuM of our actively managed unit trusts.  Anthony Cross and Julian Fosh were named Best Fund Manager Equity – UK All Companies at the 2017 Citywire awards. Figure 2 – Gross profit £’000 Performance fee revenues (£’000) Non-performance fee revenues (£’000) FY15 FY16 FY17 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 Revenue margin (Gross profit (excluding performance fees) divided by average AuM) remains unchanged at 0.83% compared to last year and 0.79% two years ago, reflecting the increased impact of higher average AuM and improving revenue margin. Director, member/employee compensation as a percentage of Gross profit reduced by 1% reflecting higher fees and cost controls. Figure 8 – Other administration expenses* as a percentage of Gross Profit 16.0% 16.5% FY15 FY16 FY17 17.0% 17.5% 18.0% 18.5% 19.0% * This is an alternative performance measure (‘APM’). Reason for use: This is used to present a measure of profitability per share in line with the adjusted operating profit as detailed above. In order to help identify, manage and control risk, Liontrust breaks it down into four categories. Liontrust has only minor direct exposure to market risk through manager box positions and small holdings in the sub-funds of Liontrust Global Funds Plc which have been undertaken to aid incorporation and are redeemed when funds grow in size. Liontrust manages its operational risk with a framework based upon the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s paper “Sound Practices for the Management and Supervision of Operational Risk” using seven operational risk event types that may result in substantial losses including: Operational Risk Event Type Description Internal Fraud Misappropriation of assets, tax evasion, intentional mismarking of positions, bribery External Fraud Theft of information, hacking damage, third-party theft and forgery Employment Practices and Workplace Safety Discrimination, workers’ compensation, employee health and safety Clients, Products, & Business Practice Market manipulation, antitrust, improper trade, product defects, fiduciary breaches, account churning Damage to Physical Assets Natural disasters, terrorism, vandalism Business Disruption & Systems Failures Utility disruptions, software failures, hardware failures Execution, Delivery, & Process Management Data entry errors, accounting errors, failed mandatory reporting, negligent loss of client assets These risk event types are further broken down into 36 sub-categories. Liontrust also commissions an external accountancy firm to report on internal controls in accordance with AAF 01/06. All our investment processes are fully documented, which enables clients to understand clearly how we manage assets. Social Responsibility We are carrying out our community engagement through two major sponsorships, with three key objectives. Vinay is responsible for overseeing all finance, information technology, operations, risk and compliance of the Group. After obtaining a first class degree in computing science from Imperial College London, Vinay worked for W.I. Butterfield & Son Limited, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust Plc and CATCo Reinsurance Opportunities Fund Ltd. Mike Bishop, 66, (Senior Independent Director). George is a chartered accountant with over 30 years’ experience having specialised throughout most of his career in advising clients on executive pay and remuneration issues. Full details of the Group’s financial risk management can be found in note 2 on page 68. • There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office as at 31 March 2017. The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors and Officers. The evaluation process is constructively used to improve Board effectiveness, maximise strengths and address any weaknesses. The Company has put arrangements in place with its registrars to ensure that all proxy votes are received and accurately accounted for. This work includes an ongoing assessment of our business against those outcomes with any actions tracked accordingly. Risks outside the management’s influence include regulatory change, Brexit, falling markets, terrorism, a deteriorating UK economy, investment industry price competition and hostile takeovers. The Group’s internal control system is based on a “three lines of defence” model summarised in the diagram below: Liontrust Asset Management PLC Board LIPPM/LFPPM Business Departments Front Ofﬁce Operations Sales Marketing Finance (Treasury) Risk Compliance Finance (Controls) Internal Controls IT Security Compliance Visits Systems & Controls Review External Audit AAF Assurance Process Consultancy Reviews Control Departments Other Assurance Providers Audit & Risk Committee 1 st Line of Defence 2 nd Line of Defence 3 rd Line of Defence Liontrust’s Business Departments, supervised by the Partnership Committees, are responsible for identifying and managing risk and control activities within their business lines. These significant stakeholders are: shareholders; clients; members; employees; service providers that provide the Group with outsourced functions; and industry bodies. Liontrust does not explicitly link total incentive awards to a multiple of base salary or fixed allocation or cap total awards to individuals but it should be noted that the aggregate annual bonus and variable allocation pool for all employees and members including Executive Directors is capped. The aggregate pool is capped at no more than 30% of pre-cash bonus/variable allocation Adjusted Profit before tax. L TIP awards are granted annually and vesting is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions (including a shareholding requirement). In line with the normal operation of a SIP envisaged by HMRC, there are no performance conditions on matching shares. No variable .pay award was made to Adrian Collins for the financial year ended 31 March 2017; (2) Benefits in kind comprise private medical insurance. Alongside Vinay Abrol, led external shareholder relations, with positive feedback on strategy and performance from these meetings. LIONTRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 51 Non-executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses. Under the rules of the SIP any unvested shares automatically vested on Adrian Collins stepping down as Executive Chairman; (2) The vesting of shares awarded are not subject to any performance condition, but are subject to continuous service conditions and claw back provisions, see Directors’ remuneration policy table for further details; and (2) The vesting of shares awarded are not subject to any performance condition, but are subject to continuous service conditions and claw back provisions, see Directors’ remuneration policy table for further details. The following new standards are applicable to these financial statements, but do not have a significant impact. Fees receivable arise mainly from the Group’s investment management business and amounts are monitored regularly. The MICI allocated, in terms of number of Ordinary shares, to individual members were as follows: Issue Date 1 April 2016 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 March 2017 Exercise price Scheme 8 July 2013 35,000 – (35,000) – – Nil LMIS Issue Date 1 April 2015 Granted Exercised Lapsed 31 March 2016 Exercise price Scheme 28 March 2012 75,000 – (75,000) – – Nil LMIS 28 September 2012 1,565,000 – (1,565,000) – – Nil LMIS 8 July 2013 35,000 – – – 35,000 Nil LMIS Under the Liontrust Members Reward Plan (‘LMRP’) certain individual members have been allocated profits with which they have made a capital contribution to the Liontrust LLP Members Reward Limited Partnership (‘LLMRLP’) , which entitle such individual member to a future amount dependant on performance conditions being met. The company reviews its balances due to and from other Group companies on a regular basis. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this finanical year are taxed at an effective rate of 20%. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this financial year are taxed at an effective rate of 20%. 44 Post balance sheet event The acquisition of Alliance Trust Investments Limited was completed on 1 April 2017 as detailed in Note 25. Liontrust offers a range of products such as Unit Trusts, Offshore funds, Segregated Mandates and Discretionary Portfolio Management Services. Based on work performed for revenue, we identified no material misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance. For these new awards, we verified that they were appropriately authorised, consistent with scheme plans, classified correctly as equity or cash settled and used the correct share price. • We obtained and read external valuation reports for new schemes which used an industry accepted model to compute the grant date fair value. We tested the reasonableness of management’s judgements by reference to historical data (i.e. schemes that have already vested). Based on work performed for share schemes and incentive plans, we identified no material misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance. Further information: For further information on the Company’s range of funds and services please contact our Broker Services Department at: Liontrust Fund Partners LLP 2 Savoy Court London WC2R 0EZ Telephone: 020 7412 1700 Facsimile: 020 7412 1779 e-mail: info@liontrust.co.uk or visit: www.liontrust.co.uk Group subsidiary entities – board members: Liontrust Investment Funds Limited V .K.