we operate from 12 retail sites across great britain (11 at 31 march 2017), supported by a central contact centre which deals with digital and telephone enquiries. we can choose to buy an existing dealer, or develop a new operation, avoiding the need for goodwill payments. whilst there are always lessons to be learned, i believe that management made appropriate decisions in this period of uncertainty and reduced demand. reaching our first year end as a public company i am proud to have overseen the smooth transition from private ownership. we are building our capability in stock, marketing and customer relationship management, with new initiatives underway to prepare for the next phase of growth. in particular there has been impressive expansion within the premium market, not least from bmw, audi, mercedes-benz, jaguar and land rover. motorpoint group plc annual report and accounts 2017 13 our strategy new sites and growth opportunity during the year we continued to deliver on our strategy to open at least one new site per year, with a medium term target of at least 20 sites in the uk. this will be tabled for approval at the forthcoming agm on 26 july 2017, with an anticipated payment date during september 2017. key financial metrics fy17 fy16 change revenue £822.0m £729.2m 12.7% gross profit £62.2m £55.7m 11.7% gp/overheads ratio 137.3% 150.1% (12.8%) operating profit before exceptional items £16.9m £18.6m (9.1%) profit before exceptional items and tax £15.7m £18.2m (13.7%) profit before tax £11.7m £16.9m (30.1%) adjusted basic earnings per share 12.7p 14.7p (13.6%) basic earnings per share 8.7p 13.4p (35.1%) cash generated from operations before exceptional items £13.6m £19.5m (30.3%) 16 motorpoint group plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report together with the interim dividend of 1.33 pence per share that was paid on 17 march 2017, this will deliver a total dividend for the year of 4.23 pence per share. to support the maiden motorpoint group plc annual report, four year trends for both revenue and gross profit are shown below, all reported under ifrs. exceptional items in relation to the ipo of motorpoint group plc have been prudently treated as non-deductible for tax purposes. prepayments comprise amounts paid out by the business which have future benefits, predominantly rent and rates associated with retail premises but also include deferred costs in relation to extended guarantee products. cash outflows for pre ipo transactions and dividends totalled £5.2m which were all concluded prior to the listing of motorpoint group plc. availability and terms of customer finance vehicle sales volumes rely on our customers being able to access affordable credit lines. regulation the company has various fca permissions to carry on a range of regulated insurance and consumer credit activities from which it derives income. we have a compliance committee which conducts regular reviews of the key regulatory risk areas, allocating control environment improvement objectives to relevant owners. we utilise the services of an expert third party it company to ensure that any investments made in technology are fit for purpose. we are delighted to have supported local charities at each of our sites during the year (see table overleaf). prior to his role at sytner group, mark was in audit, business advisory and corporate finance with price waterhouse where he qualified as a chartered accountant. prior to his role at sytner group, mark was in audit, business advisory and corporate finance with price waterhouse where he qualified as a chartered accountant. awards are additionally subject to a two year post vesting holding period during which time vested shares may not be sold (other than for tax). remuneration in fy17 base salaries were set on admission and will be reviewed annually, normally effective from 1 july of each year. the report is subject to approval by shareholders at our forthcoming agm on 26 july 2017 and will be effective from that date. base salaries will normally be reviewed annually by the committee with any increases typically taking effect from 1 july each year. the company operates a psp under which annual awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made to executive directors and selected senior managers. until this guideline is met, directors must retain all shares vesting under the psp (after payment of tax and national insurance contributions). • the remuneration committee recognises that it may be necessary in some circumstances to provide compensation for amounts forfeited from a previous employer (‘‘buy-out awards’’). new bridge street (nbs) was appointed in 2016 following a competitive tender process to act as an independent adviser on remuneration matters. sales to such customers are for cash and/or part exchange, often with finance provided by a selected panel of financial institutions. motorpoint group plc annual report and accounts 2017 87 glossary term meaning adjusted operating costs operating expenses before exceptionals adjusted operating profit operating profit before exceptionals agm annual general meeting cagr compound annual growth rate capital employed average of the opening and closing position of the year for net assets adjusted for related party balances and legacy ebt liability ceo chief executive officer cfo chief financial officer defra department for environment, food and rural affairs dtr disclosure guidance and transparency rules ebitda earnings before interest, depreciation and amortisation ebt earnings before tax eps earnings per share fca financial conduct authority frc financial reporting council fte full time equivalent gaap generally accepted accounting practice gp gross profit hmrc hm revenue and customs ias international accounting standards ifrs international financial reporting standards ined independent non-executive director ipo initial public offering libor london interbank offered rate ltip long term incentive plan nbs new bridge street ned non-executive director ni national insurance nps net promotor score oem original equipment manufacturer pbt profit before tax pci payment card industry pcp personal contract purchase psp performance share plan pwc pricewaterhousecoopers llp roce return on capital employed, being operating profit before exceptional items / capital employed saye save as you earn sid senior independent non-executive director sip share incentive plan ved vehicle excise duty 88 motorpoint group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements advisers and shareholder information registered office motorpoint chartwell drive west meadows industrial estate derby de21 6bz united kingdom company number 10119755 company secretary ms manjit kaur virk joint stock brokers numis securities limited the london stock exchange building 10 paternoster square london ec4m 7lt shore capital stockbrokers limited bond street house 14 clifford street london w1s 4ju share listing motr.l 1 pence ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange and are the only class of shares in issue independent auditors pricewaterhousecoopers llp donington court pegasus business park castle donington east midlands de74 2u2 registrar capita asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu email: shareholder.enquiries@capita.co.uk financial pr fti consulting 200 aldersgate aldersgate street london ec1a 4hd tel: +44 20 3727 1000 bankers santander uk plc 2 clumber street nottingham ng1 3ga financial calendar 26 july 2017 annual general meeting 3 august 2017 ex-dividend date 4 august 2017 final dividend record date 8 august 2017 drip election deadline 1 september 2017 final dividend payment date 6 october 2017 half year trading update 29 november 2017 interim results announcement shareholder enquiries our registrars will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your shareholdings (see contact details above).