our global values put customers at the heart of everything we do develop and encourage great people who are passionate about taking responsibility and making things happen combine relentless innovation with integrity and professionalism strive to be the best in the world at what we do put customers at the heart of everything we do “we aim to make it easier for customers to get home repairs done easily and quickly – their emergency is our emergency.” martin bennett, uk ceo 7 annual report & accounts 2017 strategic report 8 chief executive’s review homeserve has had another very good year with strong underlying performance enhanced by foreign exchange tailwinds. demand for digital engagement at every stage of the customer journey continues, while more customers seek “smart home” products to enhance their experience. entering new geographies utilities around the world recognise that providing home assistance services is proven to increase customer loyalty and drive higher retention rates in their core energy businesses. new customers typically enrol on an introductory offer and so we expect our policy retention rate in year 1 to be lower than subsequent years. operational performance through affinity partner relationships, homeserve offers home assistance products, under a utility brand, to around 90% of the addressable uk market. this was a transformational year for homeserve in north america, with good underlying organic growth enhanced by the acquisition of utility service partners inc. (usp). we have achieved the milestone of 3.0m customers, added 100 new partners and reached 50m affinity partner households, making good progress towards our 80m household target. direct mail continues to be the most significant marketing channel, with continued progress in sales through our partner channels. checkatrade is the uk’s most recognised and trusted online directory of high- quality, customer-recommended tradespeople with nearly 1m unique customer visits a month, resulting in approximately 1.3m jobs per annum. we have commenced marketing a range of home assistance products, principally through edison energia’s sales channels, including television advertising. as a result of these investments, together with ongoing partner payments, we expect capital expenditure to be around £70m in fy18. during the year, our marketing channels performed as we expected with direct mail response rates continuing to perform well. it is possible such legislative changes could reduce, or even remove, the need for some of our products and services. retention rates are high across all established businesses, resulting in stable and recurring cashflows from a large, diverse customer base. we will take all practicable steps to ensure that if an employee becomes disabled during the time they are employed, their employment can continue. over 230 employees have raised money for cancer charities including races across spain and a charity football tournament organised by the ngo “cooperación internacional”. 59 annual report & accounts 2017 leadership johnathan ford, group chief operating o‡cer, is the director responsible for environmental, health and safety matters. the reports that follow are intended to give shareholders an understanding of our corporate governance arrangements and how they operated in fy17. richard harpin (52) founder and chief executive o‡cer of homeserve, which was set up in 1993 as a joint venture with south sta’ordshire group. ben mingay (52) 1 2 3 4 appointed to the board in january 2012. managing partner of smith square partners, an independent corporate ﬁnance advisory ﬁrm. newly appointed board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the group’s various operations. remuneration for executive directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a signiﬁcant portion of each director’s package. furthermore there is a clawback provision in respect of annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards which helps to guard further against excessive risk-taking. however, any salary increases will normally be no higher than the typical level of increase awarded to other uk employees. three years awards of performance and matching shares are granted under the long term incentive plan (which was approved by shareholders in 2008). details of their current three year appointments are as follows: name date of contract j m b gibson 1 april 2016 s david 23 november 2016 c havemann 1 december 2015 b mingay 1 january 2015 m morris 27 february 2015 outside appointments executive directors may hold one outside appointment and can retain any fees received. awards may also be fulﬁlled through newly issued shares, subject to the dilution limits within each scheme (which are fully compliant with investor guidelines). no person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. key observations we were satisﬁed that appropriate revenue deferral policies have been adopted and complied with across the group. we are satisﬁed that the recognition of a deferred tax asset in relation to acquired net operating losses is appropriate. subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period (see below) adjustments. marketing expenses also include payments made to aªnity partners in recognition of their support for the group’s selling and policy renewal activities. these are valued using the excess earnings method taking into account a number of key assumptions such as retention and net income. again, the valuation of this put option has been considered in accordance with ias39 and it is not deemed to have any material value at 31 march 2017. the concentration of credit risk is limited due to individual receivables being small and spread across a diverse policyholder base. the group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of ﬁxed and variable rate debts.