babcock provides skilled, bespoke engineering services which allow our customers to improve their own performance whilst reducing costs. long‑term successful relationships with our customers help create strong cash flows that can be used to generate growth and shareholder value. 19 babcock international group plc annual report and accounts 2017 chief executive’s review aligned for growth unaffected by the changing environment. but the depth and breadth of our offering brings its own problems when we are trying to win new business. we’ve made a lot of progress internationally in the last two years, but i believe that our structure was holding us back. infrastructure, including our dockyards at devonport and rosyth, will continue to be a main driver for all four sectors. to carry out these two tasks effectively, we are embedding business development people from each sector in the new global growth organisation. my society is not used to the idea of women working in this field, but i haven’t let that stop me. it is also introducing alternative options for those employees who may wish to leave the schemes whilst remaining employed. three further t23s have now entered their lifex programmes • secured an order for 22 assemblies for the us‑uk missile launch tube programme • submarine dismantling project began dismantling the first nuclear submarine in rosyth • hms vanguard completed all initial major milestones • won eight further maritime equipment management contracts • secured a contract to provide 3d production design of a us coastguard opv • won a siemens contract for two wind farm modules • formed jv with oman drydock company to support international navies in duqm, oman • completed the third opv for the irish naval service, began work on a fourth • entered agreement to provide long‑term through‑life support services for anzac class ships operating margin 12.1% revenue growth +6.5% kpi kpi 38 babcock international group plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report 1 directors’ report 80 financials 142 ifrigates – using innovation to enhance through‑life support delivery babcock analytical services is developing the concept of ifrigates through project athena. our energy and marine services business has successfully executed the first offshore renewables substation for e.on’s rampion wind farm. given this recent experience and our world‑class facility at rosyth, we remain well positioned to take advantage of the next round of uk government offshore wind funding and approvals in 2017. over the past year we have seen sustained growth in our independent technology consultancy businesses. our hmnb clyde apprenticeship programme won the prestigious princess royal training award, which honours uk employers who have created a lasting impact. 2017 performance highlights 2017 £m 2016 £m revenue total (including jvs) 976.5 843.1 joint ventures 90.8 88.5 operating profit total (including jvs) 146.6 131.3 joint ventures 58.7 45.2 operating margin total (including jvs) 15.0% 15.6% joint ventures 64.6% 51.1% revenue % of group operational review continued defence and security market overview in addition to its commitment to increase the defence budget by 0.5% above inflation for the remainder of this parliament, the uk government has also committed to increase its equipment budget at 1% above inflation. importantly for babcock, there is a change in financial arrangements where savings made by the front line commands can be used to fund new investments. key highlights • uk military flying training system (ukmfts) rotary wing contract awarded to ascent, our 50:50 jv with lockheed martin • ukmfts fixed wing contract started strongly and is performing well • hawk t1 integrated operational support rebid awarded • successfully moved to the next phase of dsg pricing (schedule of rates), currently working on 12 demonstration vehicles for the warrior capability sustainment programme • final airtanker aircraft delivered on schedule • leconfield defence school of transport contract win • renewed army training and maintenance contracts • 100% success on contract rebids and extensions, including airbase multi‑activity support and ukmfts rear crew training contracts operating margin 15.0% revenue growth +15.8% kpi kpi 19% 44 babcock international group plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report 1 directors’ report 80 financials 142 employing technical innovation at babcock dsg across the group babcock is driving technology to deliver results. previously, we identified defects in vehicles’ hulls through the use of dye penetration testing, which could only detect surface‑breaking flaws. our transformation of royal navy engineering training is progressing, providing innovative learning with stimulating interactive online content and media supported by simplified instruction. this has been achieved by extending the scope of our high potential identification, pushing deeper into talent pools, stretching and challenging people earlier in their careers. targeting critical technical skills, we currently have 118 apprentices on programme and 2016 saw the first cohort complete our two‑year advanced air engineering apprentice scheme. we employ around 1,700 highly trained and uniquely skilled people to deliver those specialist services from more than 30 sites across the uk. however, while we expect large organisations to look to maximise the value of their levy account, our customer base also includes small employers who key highlights • nuclear decommissioning milestones achieved on programmes across all decommissioning sites • additional work at dounreay successfully completed • cavendish nuclear delivered a major hazard reduction project at sellafield • increased revenues at our abc rail joint venture • next generation of fire engines delivered for london fire brigade • award winning ‘app’ launched to connect key stakeholders at heathrow • network rail’s new ‘trailblazer’ apprenticeship programme designed and mobilised • digital learning business secures new contracts • severn tunnel rail track lowering project successfully delivered revenue % of group operating margin 7.5% revenue growth ‑2.3% kpi kpi 28% 48 babcock international group plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report 1 directors’ report 80 financials 142 may be disincentivised from training apprentices under the new regime. our order book and pipeline of new business opportunities support the potential for continued success across these core markets. john clarke, nda’s chief executive, said: “we always encourage our contractors to adopt the highest standards of safety, security and environmental responsibility. in addition, cavendish nuclear’s dounreay joint venture had higher than expected activity levels following some acceleration to the programme of works. around 68 tonnes of highly radioactive liquid metal coolant was removed from the dounreay fast reactor (dfr) and safely destroyed over a 10‑year period. handling the material is a particularly complex technical challenge as it reacts vigorously when exposed to air or water, eventually catching fire. 2017 performance highlights 2017 £m 2016 £m revenue total (including jvs) 955.7 790.1 joint ventures 8.6 7.2 operating profit total (including jvs) 105.3 107.6 joint ventures 3.3 2.2 operating margin total (including jvs) 11.0% 13.6% joint ventures 38.4% 30.6% revenue % of group operational review continued international market overview at mcs, we continue to see attractive markets in the emergency services sector, with a number of new opportunities included in our pipeline, together with search and rescue and firefighting outsourcing opportunities in existing and new markets. total operating profit for the division declined by 2.1%, which equates to an organic reduction of 12.9% at constant exchange rates. in australia, we are running operations for the victorian government’s ambulance victoria service and have renewed our emergency medical services contract at horn island. we have once again increased our market position in australia with the award of two new long‑term contracts by chevron and conoco phillips. the contract to support gse at babcock upgrades technical fleet capability in south australia babcock, in supporting the government of south australia, has upgraded its fleet of three aircraft with increased technical capability utilising electro‑optical infra‑red system (eoirs) technology to enhance outcomes for tactical surveillance and search and rescue missions. sustainability mcs understands that mission critical success depends on people – both our own team members and the communities we serve. it is our belief that strong success can only be delivered through a sustainable business, which is why at babcock we uphold the strictest standards of business ethics, deliver a competitive talent development programme and put safety at the forefront of everything we do. finally, at this year’s imarest european international submarine races, babcock sponsored a team of students from montreal’s école de technologie supérieure (é.t .s) allowing them to race and showcase their human‑powered submarines, as well as partnering with é.t .s to launch the ‘babcock excellence award’, with the aim of promoting and recognising innovative engineering students. as a result of this initiative, procurement is engaging earlier in order to help provide our customers with the best possible solution while improving profitability. we take this responsibility very seriously and work in collaboration with other industry leaders to create a process that optimises risk management while encouraging the use of smes. for these companies, we need to be certain that information is well managed and protected throughout the supply chain. focus on recruitment, retention and development of talent we recognise that an employee’s relationship with babcock starts before they even apply to us. in parallel, we have established a partnership that will see babcock employees join vine trust volunteers on 14‑day expeditions to the tanzanian municipality of moshi. inevitably, companies with this background will tend to be starting from a level of relatively low female participation, especially in management positions. we focus our graduate recruitment programme, particularly for engineering graduates, on those universities that have a richer gender mix. we have now also become a founder member of upstanding, which champions equal opportunities for black, asian and minority ethnic group (bame) employees. during the year, a babcock supplier’s code of business conduct was published to further promote these values throughout our supply chain. our customer profile we rely heavily on winning and retaining large contracts with a relatively limited number of major customers, whether in the uk or overseas. mitigation senior management at group and sector level are keenly aware of reputational risks, which can come from many sources. a change in requirements could entail substantial expenditure which may not be recoverable (either fully or at all) under customer contracts. she was also a non-executive director of morgan advanced materials plc (uk), norsk hydro asa (norway) and outokumpu oyj (finland). we, therefore, recommend to shareholders that they reappoint each of our non-executive directors at the forthcoming annual general meeting in july. it has delegated other specific responsibilities to its committees and these are clearly defined within their terms of reference. our updated policy therefore remains largely unchanged, but will incorporate some new features that ensure alignment with best practice and shareholders’ interests. other than in exceptional cases (such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits) the committee does not anticipate employer contributions into a defined contribution pension scheme or cash in lieu of benefit as being at a cost to the company that would exceed 25% of base salary. matching shares are forfeited if employees leave within three years of their award (other than for ‘good leaver’ reasons). 150% of salary performance share plan new appointees may be granted awards under the psp on similar terms to other executives. in order to facilitate like-for-like compensatory awards on recruitment, the committee may avail itself of listing rule 9.4.2(2) if required. financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the group’s strategic and operating plan. no material reduction in long-term incentive targets for future awards would be made without prior consultation with our major shareholders. in very exceptional circumstances, the committee has discretion to allow immediate vesting but time pro- rating will always apply. in line with our policy, overall vesting at threshold is no more than 15% when all measures are taken into account. the important thing for me is getting young people excited about stem subjects, and showing that there are fascinating careers accessible to everyone. the group’s investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition. the group’s investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment loss) identified on acquisition. amounts charged to the impairment provision are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash. via foro buonaparte, 70 20121, milano, italy babcock tcm (proprietary) limited k plot 67978, mokolwane house, phakalane industrial, phakalane, gaborone, botswana babcock us investments (number two) llc c 160 greentree drive, suite 101, dover de 19904, united states babcock us investments inc. 160 greentree drive, suite 101, dover, kent county de 19904, united states babcock zambia limited po box 28037, kitwe, copperbelt province, 101010, zambia bmh technologies (holdings) gmbh c berliner platz 12, 41061, monchengladbach, germany chepstow insurance limited st martin’s house, le bordage, st peter port, gy1 4au cognac formation aero lieu dit le portaret, 83340, le cannet des maures, france conbras servicos tecnicos de suporte limiteda rua nilo pecanha no 50, suites 314 & 315, centro, rio de janeiro, 20020.100, brazil context information security llc c 2711 centerville road, suite 400, wilmington de 19808, united states frazer-nash consultancy (australia) pty limited 689-695 mersey road, osborne sa 5017, australia heli aviation (tianjin) helicopter sales co., ltd. room 514/515, the aviation industry support center, comprehensive free trade zone, airport industrial park, 1 boahang riad, tianjin, china heli aviation china ltd world finance centre, kowloon hong kong/ room 1102-1103 11/f, kowloon building, 555 nathan road, mongkok, kowloon, hong kong inaer aviation mozambique lda avenida zedequais manganhela, no 267 1 andar direito, maputo, 1100, mozambique inaer congo sa avenue charles de gaulle, pb 5871, pointe-noire, pb 5871, the democratic republic of the congo inaer helicopter australia pty limited level 10, 70 franklin street, adelaide sa 5000, australia inaer helicopter chile s.a. 2880 americo vespucio norte avenue, suite 1102, conchali, santiago, chile inaer helicopter peru s.a.c. via foro buonaparte, 70 20121, milano, italy babcock tcm (proprietary) limited k plot 67978, mokolwane house, phakalane industrial, phakalane, gaborone, botswana babcock us investments (number two) llc c 160 greentree drive, suite 101, dover de 19904, united states babcock us investments inc. 160 greentree drive, suite 101, dover, kent county de 19904, united states babcock zambia limited po box 28037, kitwe, copperbelt province, 101010, zambia bmh technologies (holdings) gmbh c berliner platz 12, 41061, monchengladbach, germany chepstow insurance limited st martin’s house, le bordage, st peter port, gy1 4au cognac formation aero lieu dit le portaret, 83340, le cannet des maures, france conbras servicos tecnicos de suporte limiteda rua nilo pecanha no 50, suites 314 & 315, centro, rio de janeiro, 20020.100, brazil context information security llc c 2711 centerville road, suite 400, wilmington de 19808, united states frazer-nash consultancy (australia) pty limited 689-695 mersey road, osborne sa 5017, australia heli aviation (tianjin) helicopter sales co., ltd. room 514/515, the aviation industry support center, comprehensive free trade zone, airport industrial park, 1 boahang riad, tianjin, china heli aviation china ltd world finance centre, kowloon hong kong/ room 1102-1103 11/f, kowloon building, 555 nathan road, mongkok, kowloon, hong kong inaer aviation mozambique lda avenida zedequais manganhela, no 267 1 andar direito, maputo, 1100, mozambique inaer congo sa avenue charles de gaulle, pb 5871, pointe-noire, pb 5871, the democratic republic of the congo inaer helicopter australia pty limited level 10, 70 franklin street, adelaide sa 5000, australia inaer helicopter chile s.a. 2880 americo vespucio norte avenue, suite 1102, conchali, santiago, chile inaer helicopter peru s.a.c. 211 babcock international group plc annual report and accounts 2017 other information shareholder information 212 babcock international group plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial calendar financial year end 31 march 2017 2016/17 full year results announced 24 may 2017 annual general meeting 13 july 2017 final dividend payment date (record date 30 june 2017)* 11 august 2017 * see also ‘results and dividends’ on page 134. registered office and company number 33 wigmore street london, w1u 1qx registered in england company number 2342138 registrars capita asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent, br3 4tu tel: 0871 664 0300 (calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone company’s access charge, from overseas – call 0371 664 0300, calls outside the uk will be charged at the applicable international rate.