we continue to monitor against our set of board objectives which are detailed further in the corporate governance section. new business has been signed with clients across a range of sectors, including hastings direct (insurance), c hoare & co (financial services) and dugout (entertainment). our strategy in this market represents a strong growth opportunity by creating an asset- light, margin-rich revenue stream. for employees 73 latest employee engagement score (october 16) see also see also 12 | kcom group plc annual report and accounts 2016/17 page title strategic report “ millions of our customers are choosing to use our digital services rather than picking up a phone or pen, with more joining them every day . it is the first time a government organisation has adopted voice biometric technology for large scale public use. reliability is key 15 kcom group plc annual report and accounts 2016/17 | strategic report market opportunities and trends continued market opportunities and trends internet usage among consumers and businesses continues to grow > the average consumer broadband customer in hull and east yorkshire downloaded 52 per cent more data in 2016/17 than in 2015/16 > the volume of data downloaded by hull and east yorkshire business customers increased by 81 per cent in 2016/17 compared to the previous year > consumers using our lightstream fibre broadband service download 65 per cent more data than those using non-fibre connections smart tv adoption and tv/video streaming are on the rise > the largest increase in take-up of internet-connected devices in the uk during 2016 was of smart tvs, with ownership increasing to 27 per cent from 21 per cent in 2015 1 > tv/video streaming by consumer customers in hull and east yorkshire increased by 44 per cent in 2016/17 compared to the previous year demand for faster broadband services remains strong > high take-up rates of our lightstream broadband service have been maintained throughout our fibre deployment as both consumers and businesses use more internet-based services through more internet-connected devices fixed-line voice calls are declining > in line with uk-wide trends, the substitution of fixed-line voice calls for text-based forms of communication and smartphone use has resulted in declining fixed-line call volumes across both consumers and businesses in the region responding to market opportunities fibre deployment > the accelerated deployment of fibre broadband across our hull and east yorkshire network since march 2016 means we are on track to make our lightstream service available to 150,000 premises in the region by december 2017. our focus is on improving the return on our investment by developing new services that help customers make the most of their connectivity new propositions development > following an intensive customer research project we are refreshing our range of broadband and communication services to allow consumers to choose a package that more closely meets their needs, whether they want faster speeds, a bigger data download allowance or no inclusive calls. this information is presented before exceptional items in order to provide a better understanding of the group’s underlying performance. 1. refer to glossary on page 114. enterprise during the year, we have seen year-on-year revenue growth, through growing relationships with key customers such as hmrc and nfu mutual. in september 2016, we agreed a new five year £180.0 million revolving credit facility, on the same terms as our existing arrangements. customers people driving operational excellence our value creation is underpinned by four strategic pillars 21 kcom group plc annual report and accounts 2016/17 | strategic report we recognise that our customers’ needs are better met if we work seamlessly with carefully selected partners to create combined service offerings. progress for 2016/17 we have: > worked increasingly with providers of niche technologies that, when integrated with the scalable, mature platforms offered by best-in-class providers such as amazon web services, ca technologies, cisco and microsoft, offer a balance of stability and innovation in customer solutions. progress for 2016/17 we have: > completed a programme of investment in our critical systems infrastructure that has significantly increased its reliability and improved its performance; > begun the transition to an api-centric it architecture model, an agile and future-proof approach that enables us to benefit from the integration of third party applications within our infrastructure. we are focusing more on new technologies and applications; therefore the mitigation of this risk is very much aligned with our strategy. any lessons learnt from such tests are fed back into the resilience planning process, which in turn is continually reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. > we have introduced a new hr advisory service to provide support for people managers and help them develop their skills in handling employee relations issues. the retired driving instructor took his first steps on social media at one of kcom’s monthly internet drop-in sessions. “these sessions are a godsend really, without them i wouldn’t have much use for my ipad. > as part of our efforts to improve digital inclusion we introduced regular online skills sessions at more hull and east yorkshire locations. where we have done this it has achieved reductions in energy usage for air conditioning by up to 77 per cent. other roles jane has no other roles outside of kcom at present, but will join the board of morgan advanced materials plc as a non-executive director on 31 july 2017. appointed peter joined the board in january 2015. skills and experience peter has worked for l.e.k. attendance at board meetings director number of meetings out of possible graham holden (chairman) 9 9 jane aikman 4 4 liz barber 9 9 patrick de smedt 9 9 bill halbert 9 9 tony illsley 1 2 3 paul simpson 4 4 peter smith 9 9 1. tony illsley was unable to attend his last board meeting due to a prior commitment. management judgement around when one-off items should be treated as exceptional was therefore an area for review. these usually involve some judgement in relation to the timing of revenue and cost recognition on such contracts. 51 kcom group plc annual report and accounts 2016/17 | directors’ report having concluded that the structure of our current policy is effective and remains aligned with our strategy, we are proposing just four minor changes to enhance it further: > ltip post-vesting holding period – we are introducing a two year post-vesting holding period for ltip awards made from the year ended 31 march 2018 onwards to align executive director and shareholder interests over a five year period from the date of grant of an ltip award. it became apparent to us during the recruitment process for our new chief financial officer this year that the standard notice periods offered by other firms were set at 12 months and that therefore only being able to offer a six month notice period placed kcom out of line with general market practice. any existing remuneration commitments or contractual arrangements agreed prior to the approval and implementation of this policy report will be honoured in accordance with their original terms. awards will typically vest after no less than three years, subject to the achievement of pre-set performance criteria and continued employment. clawback and withholding provisions may be invoked for material misstatement, errors in assessing performance conditions or gross misconduct. this will require executive directors to hold any shares vesting from future awards under the ltip, after tax, for a period of two years. awards will typically vest after no less than three years, subject to the achievement of pre-set performance criteria and continued employment. clawback and withholding provisions may be invoked for material misstatement, errors in assessing performance conditions or gross misconduct. this will require executive directors to hold any shares vesting from future awards under the ltip, after tax, for a period of two years. there is a range of flexible benefits open to all employees, and the executive directors, that can be purchased each year. executive directors receive a slightly higher maximum pension contribution than other employees, at 20 per cent of base salary. long-term incentives on an ongoing basis awards will be made in line with the policy for other directors. the committee is clear that there will be a consistent approach to exit payments and no reward for poor performance. policy on outside appointments we believe that where board members hold directorships in other companies, kcom can benefit from their experience. retirement benefits bill halbert has elected not to be a member of the kcom pension scheme and, accordingly, we made no contributions on his behalf. any vested shares, after tax, will then be subject to a two year holding period following vesting. these were discussed at length and a draft revised remuneration policy was agreed, to form the basis of consultation with our largest shareholders. revenue related to equipment is accounted for based on the point of effective transfer of risks and rewards (shipment); and > in-life service – revenue for this phase is recognised in line with the obligation to provide service as dictated by customer contracts. bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet, unless a right of offset exists. in accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. where appropriate, further sensitivity analysis has been performed by changing the base case assumptions applicable to each cgu. the bank borrowings are fully repayable in december 2021 and attract an interest rate of libor plus a margin dependent on specific covenants. the group has various other financial instruments such as short-term receivables and payables which arise directly from its operations. less than one to over one year three years three years £’000 £’000 £’000 at 31 march 2016 trade and other payables 101,330 — — cash flow hedges 11 — — finance leases 3,271 3,680 — total 104,612 3,680 — at 31 march 2017 borrowings 1,225 2,450 52,144 trade and other payables 103,424 — — finance leases 1,942 2,094 — total 106,591 4,544 52,144 foreign currency risk cash flow exposure the group’s only major foreign currency risk arises due to the purchase of equipment invoiced in us dollars. the credit quality of customers is assessed by taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors. instead it provides first priority payment of any value that would be realised from the hull and east yorkshire network on an insolvency event. the unavoidable co 2 e generated by this document has been reduced to net zero through verified carbon offset projects.