lombard risk’s global presence is also enhanced by a carefully selected group of alliance partners extending its product features, increasing market reach and providing execution capacity. offices representation atlanta singapore sydney cape town new york london (hq) birmingham hong kong shanghai tokyo 28+ years of experience in the industry 340+ worldwide clients 6 office locations globally frankfurt lombard risk enables clients in the financial services industry to significantly improve their approach to managing risk and meeting regulatory reporting obligations. counting 30 of the world’s ‘top 50’ financial institutions among its clients, lombard risk has been a trusted partner for 28 years. at the halfway point of that two-year plan, we are delighted to be sharing positive news and significant progress on all fronts. delivering to such an extensive client community requires a highly skilled professional services organisation, and we pride ourselves on the quality of our implementation support. with a focus on employee engagement, training, talent management and development, this is an advantage we intend to keep. • replacement of manual processes has reduced time producing reports thus freeing resource to review outputs, analyse the data and utilise it for informed business decisions. since retiring from full-time employment in 2002, philip has concentrated on his non-executive director portfolio and acts as a “business angel”. a former divisional cio and digital leader at royal bank of scotland (“rbs”), alastair has worked in the financial services industry for over 25 years. he is a qualified chartered accountant with over 20 years’ experience in the financial services, telecommunications and wholesale distribution sectors. therefore remuneration packages for executive directors normally include basic salary, discretionary bonuses, long-term incentive awards and benefits in kind. enhancements to a separately identifiable intangible asset that is already available for use in the manner originally intended by management are expensed as incurred. (n) share options issued to employees all goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. all equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income with a corresponding credit to “other reserves”. with the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist. the legislation also requires that those who have opted out must be reviewed and enrolled again every three years. (h) share options issued to employees all goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. all equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income with a corresponding credit to “other reserves”. 63 annual report and accounts 2017 lombard risk management plc financial statements company information company registration number 03224870 directors alastair brown chief executive officer nigel gurney chief financial officer philip crawford non-executive chairman john mccormick senior non-executive director steve rogers non-executive director sandy broderick non-executive director company secretary nigel gurney registered office 7th floor 60 gracechurch street london ec3v 0hr nominated adviser and joint broker finncap limited 60 new broad street london ec2m 1jj joint broker wg partners llp 85 gresham street london ec2v 7nq auditor grant thornton uk llp grant thornton house melton street euston square london nw1 2ep corporate solicitors memery crystal llp 44 southampton buildings london wc2a 1ap registrars computershare investor services plc po box 859 the pavilions bridgwater road bristol bs99 1xz date annual general meeting 19 july 2017 64 lombard risk management plc annual report and accounts 2017 lombard risk management plc’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this annual report which has been printed on novatech digital silk, which is an fsc ® mix certified paper, ensuring that all virgin pulp is derived from well-managed forests and other responsible sources.