omega diagnostics group plc annual report and group financial statements 2017 because health matters page title continued sub title operational highlights • scottish enterprise grant funding of £1.8 million secured towards planned expansion of allersys ® menu • ce mark achieved for 41 allergens to run on ids-isys platform • four new allergodip ® panels now optimised • recruitment of skilled project managers and leaders into scientific teams • food intolerance division continues its strong performance • formal design freeze attained with our visitect ® cd4 test • ce mark achieved for visitect ® malaria tests to be manufactured at our facility in pune * the group defines adjusted profit before taxation as statutory profit before tax and amortisation of intangible assets, share-based payment charges and ifrs-related discount charges. we believe this information is useful to shareholders and analysts in providing a basis for measuring our financial performance. www.omegadiagnostics.com annual report and group financial statements 2017 03 strategic report countries where our products are distributed countries where we have a direct presence our global presence a global reach allows the group to benefit from fast growing economies in emerging markets while simultaneously mitigating challenging economic and political instability in certain regions of the world. located in devon, england, co-tek (south west) limited manufactures and sells a range of tests for diagnosing bacterial infections. since december last year, the company has been seeking to agree global distribution terms with its allersys ® licensor (immunodiagnostic systems holdings plc (ids)). andrew shepherd chief executive 29 june 2017 we are evaluating opportunities to bring other rapid tests to the market that will complement visitect ® cd4 in helping public health practitioners combat hiv in low and middle-income countries.” andrew shepherd chief executive www.omegadiagnostics.com annual report and group financial statements 2017 11 strategic report products and markets overview providing a range of tests for allergy diagnostics we have successfully optimised 50 allersys ® allergens for use on the ids-isys system that are ready for commercial launch. ige mediated allergies are defined by their rapid onset and can cause a variety of symptoms ranging from mild (rhinitis) to severe (anaphylaxis). in addition, there is an existing range of rapid diagnostic tests under the visitect ® brand designed to detect malaria, syphilis, leptospirosis and dengue fever. these values will help to guide the culture during this high growth phase we are entering as a business. just as the drought ended, cape town was hit by a storm resulting in major flooding and damage to infrastructure. failure to comply with the various regulatory laws can have adverse consequences including increased costs, restrictions, recalls or product suspensions. the group seeks to mitigate this risk by maintaining good relationships with a number of funding sources, including shareholders and banks that could provide additional debt facilities. taxation our uk companies continue to benefit from government policies on tax that encourage investment in research and development activities. foreign-denominated receivables, payables and bank balances are restated into sterling at closing balance sheet dates, which also gives rise to foreign exchange differences. inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties. the group’s non-sterling revenues, profits, assets, liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates.