© accsys technologies plc 2017 accsys technologies plc annual report & financial statements 2017 cover images 1 accoya boardwalk – norway 2 tricoya exterior lighting – new zealand 3 accoya cladding, fast food chain – north america 4 accoya cladding, fast food chain – united kingdom 5 accoya cladding, private residence – new zealand 6 accoya boardwalk – switzerland 7 accoya floor, indoor velodrome – the netherlands 8 accsys guitar – united kigdom accsys technologies plc 2017 annual report and financial statements a year of transformation and growth accsys technologies plc annual report 2017 overview 01 2017 highlights 02 accsys at a glance 04 our investment proposition strategic report 08 chairman’s statement 10 tricoya consortium 12 our market 14 our business model 16 our strategy 18 arnhem expansion 20 chief executive’s report 26 accoya 10 years on 28 financial review 34 sustainability report corporate governance 40 board of directors 44 directors’ report 48 remuneration report 63 corporate governance 65 statement of directors’ responsibilities financial statements 6 8 g r ou p i nde pe nde n t auditors’ report 70 consolidated statement of comprehensive income 71 consolidated statement of financial position 72 consolidated statement of changes in equity 73 consolidated statement of cash flow 74 notes to the financial statements 103 company independent auditors’ report 105 condensed company balance sheet 106 notes to the company financial statements shareholder information 1 1 2 s h ar e ho l d e r in f or m a t i on accsys technologies plc (‘accsys’ or the ‘company’) is a chemical technology group focused on the development and commercialisation of a range of transformational technologies based upon the acetylation of solid wood and wood elements (wood chips, fibres and particles) for use as high performance, environmentally sustainable, construction materials. accoya has properties that match or exceed those of the best tropical hardwoods, yet is manufactured from sustainable fsc ® certified wood. in addition, they benefit from all positive attributes of wood (sustainability, strength, beauty) without the downfalls (poor durability and stability). scalable growth strong management team see pages 10 and 18 for further details of current additions to manufacturing capacity see pages 40 to 43 for details of the team accoya boardwalk – norway visit our investor relations site at www.accsysplc.com/investor-relations accsys technologies plc annual report 2017 06 architect chooses medite tricoya extreme for floating house and office-ark first discovered during an exhibition in london, designer, julius taminiau, has created a floating house equipped with office space using medite tricoya extreme. within this total, accoya wood revenue increased by 17% to €50.7m (2016: €43.5m) as a result of an 18% increase in sales volume, while licence and licensing related income decreased from €5.3m to €1.9m as expected, following the receipt of higher one-off fees in the prior year, including those from our accoya licensee rhodia acetow. while it may take some time for accoya to reach its full market potential, we are confident that continued strong sales growth can be generated. accoya captures the market share in those applications which require rot, insect and water resistance, i.e. primarily outdoor products. tricoya displaces alternative more expensive or less easily handled products and opens up major new market opportunities in the construction sector. different species of wood will enable accoya to be used for new purposes while opening up greater supply chain opportunities. they benefit from all positive attributes of wood (sustainability, strength, beauty) without the downfalls (poor durability and stability). the tricoya process is based on our core acetylation knowledge but may present unexpected design issues requiring more complex engineering. extensive field trials of pre- commercial products creating options for wider species use consideration when capacity is increased. roll out corporate brand messaging through all communications to grow awareness of the accsys group and its sustainable vision. the tricoya process is based on our core acetylation knowledge but may present unexpected design issues requiring more complex engineering. extensive field trials of pre- commercial products creating options for wider species use consideration when capacity is increased. roll out corporate brand messaging through all communications to grow awareness of the accsys group and its sustainable vision. i would also like to welcome martin robinson, who joined our senior management team in april 2017 as head of group operations. we also expect to benefit from potential customers gaining greater confidence of accoya’s enduring position in the market place. sales of tricoya to date have been relatively small scale for market development and based upon accoya manufactured in arnhem. by working closely with our distributors, direct customers and joinery companies we are now seeing consumers specifying accoya too. available for sale investments accsys technologies plc has previously purchased a total of 21,666,734 unlisted ordinary shares in diamond wood china limited. €18.1m net proceeds were received in respect of loan notes issued by accsys technologies plc to business growth fund (‘bgf’) and volantis. per hectare, more cubic metres of radiata pine can be grown (20–28m 3 / ha/year) compared to slower growing wood species such as teak (6m 3 /ha/ year) or even most bamboo (10m 3 /ha/year). accoya wood also recently received platinum status for material health meaning manufacturers are trusted with the way to communicate their work towards chemically optimised products. the aging units – 242 in total – had seriously suffered from fogging, failing glass, air leakage, and broken balances that rendered them inoperable. angus qualified as a corporate solicitor with international law firm ashurst morris crisp (now known as ashurst llp) in september 2002. after gaining further experience in private practice, he has since spent over ten years working in-house for growth companies, advising on a broad range of corporate, commercial and other business matters. • the group’s forward-looking directors’ remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at our 2015 agm and is therefore binding. the main principles are to: • ensure that salaries are set at a market competitive level by benchmarking against appropriate external comparators, • support high performance culture by rewarding upper quartile performance with upper quartile reward, • maintain an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related pay, • align long-term rewards with shareholders; and • ensure that the overall package reflects market practice and takes account of remuneration elsewhere in the group. executive directors are able to participate in all-employee share plans on the same terms as other group employees. on each occasion a 1:1 match for shares subscribed is offered subject to still being employed by the company after one year. it may, however, be necessary in some cases to make buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than the existing annual and equity-based pay structures. executive director service contracts, which do not contain expiry dates, provide that compensation provisions for termination without notice will only extend to salary, certain fixed benefits and pension. the directors recognise, however, that such a system of internal financial control can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss. exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income, finance expense and the foreign currency translation reserve. 77 overview governance strategic report financial statements other intangible assets intellectual property rights, including patents, which cover a portfolio of novel processes and products, are shown in the financial statements at cost less accumulated amortisation and any amounts by which the carrying value is assessed during an annual review to have been impaired. these internal development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic life, between 10 and 20 years. depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset, except freehold land, over its expected useful life on a straight line basis, as follows: plant and machinery these assets comprise pilot plants and production facilities. where it is not possible to obtain a reliable fair value, these investments are held at cost less provision for impairment. all costs of sales are allocated against manufacturing activities in arnhem unless they can be directly attributable to a licensee. bp chemicals will contribute up to €13.7 million as equity in tvuk, aligning its interest with the plant it is supplying. unless discretion is exercised by the nomination & remuneration committee, all options are forfeit following an option holder’s termination of contract. see note 30. notes to the financial statements continued for the year ending 31 march 2017 accsys technologies plc annual report 2017 94 18. other financial assets 2017 €’000 2016 €’000 available for sale investments – – accsys technologies plc has previously purchased a total of 21,666,734 unlisted ordinary shares in diamond wood china. included in the provision for doubtful debts are individually impaired trade receivables and accrued income with a balance of €25,001,000 (2016: €25,001,000) due from diamond wood. this lease agreement also includes substantial new warehouse and office facilities which are currently being constructed by bruil. this has been accounted for as a finance lease, with a new asset and liability of €1.0m being recognised as at 31 march 2017. these transactions have resulted in a finance lease creditor of €3.1m as at 31 march 2017. minimum lease payments 2017 €’000 2016 €’000 amounts payable under finance leases: within one year 496 375 in the second to fifth years inclusive 1,770 1,403 after five years 3,016 1,490 less: future finance charges (2,206) (967) present value of lease obligations 3,076 2,301 99 overview governance strategic report financial statements 29. commitments under loan agreements 2017 €’000 2016 €’000 amounts payable under loan agreements: within one year – – in the second to fifth years inclusive 5,407 – in greater than five years 14,690 – present value of loan agreements 20,097 – loan notes: on 29 march 2017 the group issued £16.25 million (€18.38 million) of unsecured fixed rate loan notes, due 2021. money market deposits are held at financial institutions with high credit ratings (standard & poor’s rating of aa). the group’s loan notes, which were issued to fund these uk based operations, are denominated in pounds sterling. the group does not currently enter into any hedging arrangements, although will continue to monitor appropriateness of doing so. investments except where a reliable fair value cannot be obtained, unlisted shares held by the group are stated at historical cost less any provision for impairment. where it is not possible to obtain a reliable fair value, these investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.