ujjal brings over twenty-five years of executive management, engineering, marketing, strategy, m&a and board level experiences to rhythmone (lse aim: rthm). most recently, ujjal was the ceo of preact inc, a saas company in predictive analytics that wasacquiredbyspotifyandbeforerhythm,ujjalco-foundedandservedasceoofmeru networks (nasdaq: meru). andy serves on the following corporate boards: specialized bicycle components, inc., finelite, inc., growthplay, llc, and rhythmone plc (lse aim: rthm). previously, he served as president at geosign corporation, which was subsequently sold to moxy media/tsavo media, a wholly-owned subsidiary of american capital. the company’s pay policy is designed to ensure salaries and bonus amounts are paid at or around market levels. other than covering travel expenses, no additional fees or equity compensation is provided to non-executive directors for ad hoc services, such as committee memberships, board meetings, etc. there are also msovs outstanding which vest quarterly but cannot be exercised until a minimum share price threshold for rhythmone plc is achieved. the employee share option scheme has been running successfully since its inception and is open to all employees. restricted cash where required, the group keeps amounts on deposit with financial institutions as a condition of certain property leases and purchase card facility requirements. subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments. 55 rhythmone plc annualreport andaccounts fy2017 the group operates a global internet business and its commercial activity is not generated from distinguishable geographic origins. the onerous lease provision comprises obligations for future rents payable on properties that are vacant or only partially utilized. the group has adopted a policy of only dealing with counterparties that are considered to be creditworthy by management, having completed various credit checks. advertising can exist in a variety of forms including static banners, rich media, video, text, or pop-up windows. demandsideplatform(dsp) – a company that provides technology for media buyers to purchase ad placements, typically via bids in exchange’s real-time auctions. 81 rhythmone plc annualreport andaccounts fy2017 real-timebidding(rtb) – the purchase and sale of ads through computer-run auctions that happen within milliseconds.