for example, we met our annual leakage reduction target, reduced the number of serious pollution incidents and continued to deliver excellent quality drinking water. we have also appointed ray o’toole as senior independent director, filling the vacancy i left after becoming chairman. anthony rabin chairman 13 july 2017 page 9 introductions – strategic report – governance – independent auditors’ report – statutory financial statements chief executive’s overview good progress this has been a positive year for yorkshire water and its customers as we continue to make good progress towards the delivery of our five-year business plan for the period 2015 to 2020. our focus has continued to be on the affordable, efficient and safe delivery of excellent customer services, while fulfilling our environmental and social responsibilities. to ensure long-term sustainability, we manage a programme of activity that drives us towards our vision and six strategic business objectives (sbos). our sbo programme includes a suite of annual targets on activities that drive us towards medium-term milestones and long-term deliverables. we observe an imperative for change as a company whose core business fundamentally relies on financial, natural and social resources. • effective health protection and emergency procedures in july 2016 when a third party contaminated water supplies to thorne, near doncaster. • effective health protection and emergency procedures in july 2016 when a third party contaminated water supplies to thorne, near doncaster. in parallel, we are developing our latest 25-year drought plan and wrmp, which will also be published by the end of 2017/18. following internal improvements, particularly on diversity and inclusion, we achieved top marks of five stars in 2016/17, achieving our sbo commitment. we also embed contractual requirements throughout our supply chain activities and check compliance through a range of assurance controls. several physical barriers have since been put in place to prevent future contamination of the water network from this processing plant. three years into our five-year campaign, we are well ahead of plan having already raised over £730,000 through donations from colleagues, customers, partners and the company. our performance commitments to customers and regulators* 2015/16 performance 2016/17 commitment 2016/17 performance 2017/18 commitment stability and reliability – waste water quality improving / stable / marginal / deteriorating stable stable in 2020 stable stable in 2020 length of river improved total cumulative length in kilometres, km preparations commenced ≥ 440km by 2020 programme commenced ≥ 440km by 2020 bathing water quality  number of yorkshire’s designated bathing waters that exceed minimum legal standards 18 ≥ 15 17 ≥ 15 land conserved and enhanced total cumulative area in hectares, ha 11,466 ≥ 11,736ha by 2020 11,492 ≥ 11,736ha by 2020 recreational visitor satisfaction percentage of satisfied customers when surveyed 98% survey and publish figures annually 97% survey and publish figures annually highlights from our sbo commitments which measure our ambition to go beyond the performance commitments* delivering our part of the national environment programme in partnership agreed final detail of the new five-year environmental programme with the ea. continue delivering our documented five-year plan (2015-2020) of activities to protect and enhance the environment, including working in partnership where mutually beneficial. continue delivering our documented five-year plan (2015-2020) of activities to protect and enhance the environment, including working in partnership where mutually beneficial. in summer 2016 we started towards this approach at humberstone bank farm, welcoming a local farmer to take over the tenancy. following consultation in 2015 we have been enhancing the number and diversity of those able to take recreational value from our land. our planning enables us to act quickly because preferred options have been assessed for their potential environmental impact, and mitigation strategies developed. we are well placed to manage this threat because water resource management is our most mature area of resilience and planning. these figures are estimated using a standardised uk water industry tool that follows government reporting guidelines and uses latest emission factors. scope 1 emissions are those we directly release to the atmosphere, for example from burning fossil fuels on our sites, driving company vehicles, and releasing gasses during treatment processes. only moody’s produces a corporate family rating for yorkshire water services limited and its financing subsidiaries, so that is shown here. further detail of our corporate taxation and deferred tax accounting are set out in note 9 to the financial statements. we have condensed this structure to remove our inactive companies which exist for legacy reasons but are no longer in use. all material movements in business unit or corporate risks are reported monthly to the risk committee and senior leaders. • responsible leader’s framework sets core and functional competencies for all staff, achievement is monitored through the annual performance management cycle. • responsible leader’s framework sets core and functional competencies for all staff, achievement is monitored through the annual performance management cycle. the value of this assurance is that those involved will review information for technical accuracy, compliance and against wider company expectations. richard held roles at ford motor company over a 40 year period including group vice-president, global product development and chief technical officer. ensuring appropriate focus on strategy had also been identified as a top priority in terms of improving the board’s performance. in accordance with standard practice, the company’s articles of association contain provisions which permit those directors who are not conflicted to authorise conflict situations. after anthony rabin’s appointment as chairman in september 2016, the search commissioned by odgers berndtson was widened to include a third additional independent non-executive director. the range of measures ensures executives are focused on customer service, managing assets responsibly and providing appropriate returns to shareholders. the range of measures ensures executives are focused on customer service, managing assets responsibly and providing appropriate returns to shareholders. non-regular events include, but are not limited to: corporate transactions, changes in the company’s accounting policies, administrative matters, internal promotions, external recruitment, terminations, etc. page 94 introductions – strategic report – governance – independent auditors’ report – statutory financial statements personal objectives (20% of overall bonus opportunity) transformational programmes and/or departmental objectives (0- 15%) performance measure threshold transformational programmes company-wide projects of strategic importance driven by ceo with clear accountability for delivery 1. creating a frontier pr19 submission & delivery plan 2. delivering a new sap experience. of wwtw’s failing numeric consent 4 ≤6 ≤224 ≤8 4 207 7 12% 12% sustainable resources 1. renewable energy generation, gwh 2. greenhouse gas emissions, kt co 2 e ≥75 ≤342 59 307 12% 6% total 77% 1: restated to include frs 102 adjustments. the above listed directors emoluments are shown here in full, however they carry out other responsibilities within kelda group. by their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those anticipated. our big wish for ethiopia campaign focuses on six key themes of volunteering, fundraising, customers, influencing, education and capacity building. to further promote successful employee relations, collective bargaining arrangements are in place with the company’s recognised trade unions – unison, gmb and unite. these meetings also provide an opportunity to seek employee views which can then be taken into account in decision making. the company proactively supports national women in engineering week by running a number of events with girls from local schools. • state whether applicable uk accounting standards, comprising frs 102, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. during 2016/17, all except two executive directors were contributory members of the kelda group pension plan, a defined benefit scheme. the fair value of financial instruments that are not traded on an active market is determined using a discounted cash flow valuation technique. management uses its judgement to make assumptions relating to future cash flows, mainly based on forward interest rates from observable yield curves at the end of the reporting period, counter-party funding adjustments and contract interest rates, discounted at a rate that reflects own or counter-party credit risk.