htg is focused on delivering performance-critical solutions for the most demanding requirements to meet current and future global energy needs. each of these businesses has an enviable reputation and strong brand within their chosen market niches. markets we serve power generation: oil & gas: water & industrial: defence: fossil upstream water submarine fleet nuclear downstream industrial renewables (including solar/ hydro/ tidal/ wind) chemical hayward tyler with a pedigree stretching back over 200 years hayward tyler is a market leader in the design, manufacture and servicing of performance-critical motors and pumps for the harshest of environments. supporting critical infrastructure from conceptual design to end of operation with highly engineered solutions and full through life support. it is estimated that over one billion people currently do not have access to electricity, mainly in africa, india and other parts of developing asia. source: bp energy outlook 2017 edition, january 2017 power generation – centralised – fossil fuels gas is expected to be the fastest growing fuel (1.6% p.a. htg does not currently have a competitive product offering in either of these technologies, however, concentrated solar plant (csp) technology has been demonstrated successfully and is set to take a share of the renewable market, for example:  u.s. concentrated solar power market share is expected to see growth, of over 8% by 2025. federal government initiatives including tax rebate, financial assistance and net metering will complement the industry outlook;  chile concentrated solar power market revenue is set to witness strong growth of over 25% over the forecast timeframe. power generation – centralised – renewables (hydro) hydropower generates the largest share of electricity from renewable energy sources. hayward tyler is currently working in partnership with several universities and private developers to position itself as an industry leader in this growing technology space and its recent announcement on the c-gen neptune generator project is testament to this. power generation – centralised – nuclear eia's international energy outlook projects that total global nuclear generation will increase by 73% through 2040, from 2.6 trillion kilowatt-hours in 2015 to 4.5 trillion kilowatt-hours in 2040. countries that are not a part of the organisation for economic co-operation and development source: us energy information association, international energy outlook 2016, may 2016 hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 11 (non-oecd countries) account for 86% of this increase, with china alone making up more than 54% of total growth. hayward tyler continues to enjoy a stable position in the nuclear supply chain servicing its existing installed base as well as taking orders for new units, both of which result from the key accreditations of our us and uk businesses. hayward tyler’s canned motor technology provides nuclear plants with a robust product for increased life cycle and reduced maintenance costs. strategic partnering for the uk and chinese nuclear markets will play a major role in hayward tyler’s step change position in this sector and ongoing dialogue with complementary businesses will develop through the first half of fy2018. chp is an efficient means of producing electric power and useful thermal energy from a single fuel source. it uses less fuel than the alternative methods of separately generating heat by conventional boilers and power stations. whilst short-term demand for this product group remains fairly flat, ten units were secured in conjunction with our strategic partner, eureka pumps as, and with an installed base of more than 250 high-power motors offshore there are additional aftermarket opportunities across key markets. accordingly, spending on subsea trees is expected to increase by around 12% year-on-year to 2018. this demand is driven by the need of over 1,000 source: 2017 oil and gas trends - strategy – pwc, january 2017 source: eic datastream, may 2017 source: douglas – westwood analysis, 2017 hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 14 candidate fields to either optimise production or minimise the topside investment burden for multiple wellheads. hayward tyler is well placed to capitalise on this trend as it is one of only a handful of motor suppliers worldwide that have the required wet wound motor expertise, global standards capability, existing approvals and operational reference list. the 22.6mw extraction back-pressure steam turbine generator was designed, manufactured and tested in accordance with american petroleum institute (api) 612 standards. source: bp energy outlook 2017 edition, january 2017 hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 15 water and industrial – industrial hayward tyler group provides engineered solutions for applications across a wide range of other industrial sectors to provide longer life and superior performance as well as to reduce the lifetime cost of ownership, a key feature for our customers. this generates a wide range of applications, which include process industries such as sugar refining. hayward tyler’s reputation and experience has positioned the business as a key supplier for these applications. since then the submarine programme has provided both original equipment opportunities and secure aftermarket business, which is critical to maintaining casd. currently both peter brotherhood and hayward tyler are completing contracts for the astute-class submarine programme. this external driven growth is dependent inter alia on positive market conditions which we anticipate will improve during the current year. introduction when i wrote in last year’s review that “provided recent economic and political uncertainty does not affect general industrial activity, the outlook for htg is positive” i perhaps did not appreciate how prescient that comment might be. as an example, in the floating vessels market peter brotherhood has more steam turbine gensets on fpsos than all of its competition combined. working together, succeeding together in addition to the focus on win-order and operational improvements the group has also had a busy year in terms of gaining recognition amongst its peer group for its long-term development plans. these shared values go to the heart of what unites us as an ever expanding group. the key performance indicators (kpis) set out below help determine how successful we have been in strengthening our business, increasing profitability and generating a positive return to shareholders. revenue from other markets that include chemical, defence, industrial and renewables was more or less level at 16% (fy2016: 17%). hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 32 risk potential impact mitigation strategic risk a. growth strategy and competition part 1 – growth a fundamental part of the group’s strategy is growth from both oe and am and as part of that strategy the group has geared-up its fixed cost base to be able to turnover £80 million or more in a year. it has an excellent market profile (quality, reliability and customer relationships), which results in inclusion on sector bid/quote opportunities. recruitment and retention of employees remains a key focus for the group to ensure its continued success. where stage payments cannot be achieved by the group it may be possible to augment borrowing and bonding lines through use of the short-term funding schemes provided by uk export finance with whom the group has a close relationship;  a group-wide initiative to reduce stock;  increased manufacturing velocity through workflow re-engineering to reduce working capital requirements per unit of revenue;  through active management of accounts receivable and accounts payable; and  linking employee remuneration to the control of cash and working capital. csr is managed by our business units and it forms an integral part of their day- to-day operations. we continue to work in partnership with local schools, colleges and universities developing constructive working relationships. that step has resulted in 60% less crane-usage and the elimination of forklift trucks thereby reducing risks significantly. from 2015 no waste has been sent to landfill, rather it is being recycled, reused or sent for energy regeneration;  combining the values of responsibility for the environment and society, employees of hayward tyler colchester volunteered to organise a local ‘green-up’ day. as part of this day, over 20 employees have cleaned-up four miles of local roads as an annual spring event;  hayward tyler east kilbride holds both iso 9001 and iso 14001 certification, which have contributed to a significant reduction in the business unit’s impact on the environment from projects such as reducing landfill waste, improving energy efficiency on site and manufacturing without using hazardous, toxic or scarce materials. ross’s further celebrated as he was promoted to general manager operations of hayward tyler luton. kyle blackwell, june 2017 shak choudhury first came across hayward tyler in 2015 at brunel university’s engineering showcase where he was presenting his third year thesis. shak enrolled onto the imeche mpds programme, which is a mentor-based plan aimed at helping engineers attain chartered status. in addition, shak has recently started his masters at cranfield university, which hayward tyler are sponsoring. set out below is a summary of how, at 31 march 2017, the group was dealing with corporate governance issues. setting hayward tyler’s priorities for corporate governance the key achievements of the board in fy2017 were:  we continued to extend our risk management processes with a focus on contract risk in relation to suppliers;  we maintained our corporate governance in line with, or ahead of, best practice for smaller quoted companies;; and  we maintained an active investor relations programme. in addition, each affected employee is required to certify their compliance on an annual basis. these options vest three years from the date of grant and are subject to continued service. the company’s registered office is peregrine corporate services limited, burleigh manor, peel road, douglas, isle of man, im1 5ep. trading represents the underlying performance of hayward tyler and peter brotherhood together with head office costs. there have been no changes from prior periods in the measurement methods used to determine reported segment profit or loss. 2.8 property, plant and equipment land held for use in production or administration is stated at historical cost. as land is considered to have an unlimited useful life, related carrying amounts are not depreciated. hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 74 depreciation methods and useful lives for assets held under finance lease agreements correspond to those applied to comparable assets which are legally owned by the group. development costs recognised as an intangible asset are subject to the same subsequent measurement method. with the exception of goodwill, all assets are subsequently reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist. 2.16 equity, reserves and dividend payments share capital represents the nominal value of shares that have been issued. deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised in full, although ias 12 ‘income taxes’ specifies limited exemptions. service cost on the group’s defined benefit plan is included in employee benefits expense. gains and losses resulting from remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are included in other comprehensive income. all goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share-based payment are measured at their fair values. any adjustment to cumulative share-based compensation resulting from a revision is recognised in the current period. 2.19 provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets provisions are recognised when present obligations as a result of a past event will probably lead to an outflow of economic resources from the group and amounts can be estimated reliably. provisions are discounted to their present values, where the time value of money is material. (a) original equipment manufacture the group provides pumps, motors, turbo gen-sets, compressors and steam turbines specifically customised to each customer. revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable in relation to that activity. all income and expenses relating to financial assets that are recognised in profit or loss are presented within ”finance costs” or ”finance income”, except for impairment of trade receivables, which is presented within ”other expenses”. after initial recognition these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. the impairment loss is then based on recent historical counterparty default rates for each identified group. this grant income is included in operating charges as a deduction from related research, development and training expenses. the new standard establishes a control-based revenue recognition model and provides additional guidance in many areas not covered in detail under existing ifrss, including how to account for arrangements with multiple performance obligations, variable pricing, customer refund rights, supplier repurchase options and other common complexities. land is almost always an operating lease due to its long life but judgment is required to assess the classification between operating and finance lease for buildings which are assessed individually against the criteria in ias 17.10. estimation uncertainties exist particularly with regard to medical cost trends, which may vary significantly in future appraisals of the group's defined benefit pension obligations. the tsr ltip options and restricted shares together with their related exercise prices were as follows for the reporting period: restricted shares share options number exercise price per share (pence) number exercise price per share (pence) outstanding at 1 april 2016 294,118 1 426,917 1 granted - - - - forfeited - - - - exercised - - - - outstanding at 31 march 2017 294,118 1 426,917 1 exercisable at 31 march 2017 - - - - fair values have been determined by a monte carlo model. the pbl ltip options and restricted shares together with their exercise prices were as follows for the reporting period: restricted shares share options number exercise price per share (pence) number exercise price per share (pence) outstanding at 1 april 2016 250,000 1 250,000 1 granted - - - - forfeited - - - - exercised - - - - outstanding at 31 march 2017 250,000 1 250,000 1 exercisable at 31 march 2017 - - - - fair values have been determined using a black scholes option pricing model. the carrying value of assets under finance leases included in plant and machinery amounted to £4,884,057 (fy2016: £2,227,459). there are no losses for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised (fy2016: nil). hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 111 no assumption is made with regard to the expected rate of salary increases as there are no members with benefits related to future salary progression. scheme expenses net interest income resulting from the group’s defined benefit plans was £9,000 (fy2016: £2,000 expense). these changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on observation of recent volatility in the currency markets. the group's policy is to minimise interest rate cash flow risk exposures on long-term financing. these changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on observation of current market conditions. the calculations are based on a change in average market interest rate for each period and the financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest rates (i.e. net floating rate debt). in addition, as at 31 march 2017 the company had provided long-term intercompany funding to its subsidiaries of £14.2 million (fy2016: £14.6 million), the company’s management consider that these financial assets that are not impaired are of good credit quality. nicholas flanagan and ewan lloyd-baker have subscribed to the hayward tyler group plc £10 million secured loan note programme. in the case of southbank uk limited funding has been provided to finance working capital, particularly for hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 122 hayward tyler, and to finance debt repayments. group company year to 31 march 2017 year to 31 march 2016 year to 31 march 2017 year to 31 march 2016 £000 £000 £000 £000 non-cash adjustments: amortisation of intangibles 416 257 - - depreciation of property, plant and equipment finance costs interest income share based payment deferred tax loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,162 1,185 (9) 38 (253) - 1,144 619 - 110 (253) 118 - 293 (853) 22 - - - 365 (825) 110 - - total adjustments 3,539 1,995 (538) (350) net changes in working capital: movement in inventories (1,108) 5,152 - - movement in trade and other receivables (3,899) (4,785) 277 (4,084) movement in trade and other payables 387 (820) (24) (160) movement in provisions (260) 569 - - (4,880) 116 253 (4,244) hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 124 contacts contacts company registration number 010648v auditor grant thornton uk llp 202 silbury boulevard central milton keynes mk9 1lw nominated advisor finncap limited 60 new broad street london ec2m 1jj registered office & agent peregrine corporate services limited burleigh manor peel road douglas isle of man im1 5ep bankers national westminster bank silbury house 300 silbury boulevard central milton keynes mk9 2az registrars share registrars limited the courtyard 17 west street farnham, surrey gu9 7dr directors e lloyd-baker n flanagan j may m critchley corporate finance advisor akur capital 66 st james’s street london sw1a 1ne solicitors mishcon de reya llp africa house 70 kingsway london wc2b 6ah hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 125 glossary of terms 2q2017 second quarter of fy2017 being 1 july 2016 to 30 september 2016 aim london stock exchange’s market for smaller growing companies am aftermarket business segment asme american society of mechanical engineers avingtrans transaction the proposed acquisition of htg by avingtrans plc bcp boiler circulating pump cash conversion ratio of (a) trading ebitda plus movement in working capital to (b) trading ebitda centre of excellence development of hayward tyler luton including investment in research and development, training and development, expansion of the facility, and plant and equipment chp combined heat and power company, group or htg hayward tyler group plc constant exchange rate basis calculation of prior year figures at current year foreign currency exchange rates to show the impact of the change in rates year-on- year csr corporate social responsibility ebit earnings before interest and tax ebitda earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation epc engineering, procurement and construction business eps earnings per share f4n fit for nuclear is a measure of a business’s operations against the standards required to supply the nuclear industry flng floating liquefied natural gas carrier fpso floating production storage and offloading vessel used by the offshore oil and gas sector for the production and processing of hydrocarbons and storage of oil fsru floating storage and regasification unit vessel used by the offshore oil and gas sector for the production and processing of hydrocarbons and storage of oil fy2016 financial year ended 31 march 2016 or as at 31 march 2016 fy2017 financial year ended 31 march 2017 or as at 31 march 2017 fy2018 financial year ended 31 march 2018 or as at 31 march 2018 gw giga watt gross profit % gross profit margin represents ratio of (a) revenue less cost of sales to (b) revenue gtp gas to power ifrs international financial reporting standards iso 9001 certified quality management system to demonstrate a business’ ability to consistently provide products and services that meet the needs of its customers and other relevant stakeholders hayward tyler group plc financial statements for the year ended 31 march 2017 126 iso 14001 certified environmental management system to demonstrate a business’ ability to manage its environmental responsibilities khnp korea hydro nuclear power kwh kilowatt-hour kpi key performance indicator mw mega watt net debt cash less borrowings oe original equipment manufacturing business segment order book contracts for which purchase orders have been received from customers and have yet to be shipped by a period end order intake contracts for which purchase orders have been received from customers in a period rpm revolutions per minute r&d research and development rgf regional growth fund programme, in which hayward tyler luton is participating with a £3.5 million grant smr small modular reactor uk export finance uk government’s export credit agency