Read more about our approach to managing costs and maintaining balance sheet strength on page 22 Performance highlights £29,112m Group sales (inc. VAT) up 12.7% £581m Underlying profit before tax down 1% -0.6% Sainsbury’s like-for-like sales (inc. VAT, ex fuel) 10.2p Full-year dividend 21.8p Underlying basic earnings per share 17.5p Basic earnings per share £503m Statutory profit before tax 8.8% Return on capital employed down 4 bps Read more about our financial KPIs on page 40 Helping customers live well for less has been at the heart of what we do since 1869. Sainsbury’s Bank offers accessible financial services products such as credit cards, insurance, travel money and personal loans that reward customer loyalty. Choice We are one of the UK’s largest retailers, with over 90,000 products to choose from across food, general merchandise, clothing and financial services. Consistent with recent years, the main beneficiaries of these conditions have been higher ticket discretionary categories such as eating out, car sales and holidays. Discount food retailers continue to open significant numbers of new stores and gain market share, but at lower rates than in recent years. We also see a sales increase of between one to two per cent in Sainsbury’s supermarkets with an Argos Digital store. Previously President of Boots, I am sure Simon will make a significant contribution to our business, with his strong customer focus and extensive retail experience. We regularly review the layouts of our stores so that customers can do their shopping with us quickly and more conveniently. However, we are well placed to navigate the external environment and remain focused on delivering our strategy.” Mike Coupe Chief Executive Officer, J Sainsbury plc 12 Strategic Report 4 Continue cost savings and maintain balance sheet strength In line with other UK retailers, we anticipate that cost pressures will continue over the next few years. We also removed more than three tonnes of salt from our canned corned beef products without impacting taste or flavour. Our Convenience business grew by over six per cent and we opened 41 new shops including trials of seven franchises in Euro Garages’ petrol station forecourts. This made us one of the UK’s largest food, general merchandise, clothing and financial services retailers, with over 90,000 products across 2,200 stores. We now expect this roll-out, together with our £160 million synergy target, to be achieved by March 2019, six months ahead of schedule. The integration of Sainsbury’s Bank with Argos Financial Services will be phased, initially integrating certain reporting and governance capabilities. Argos Financial Services manages an existing store card estate which we will leverage by moving our credit cards onto the same platform. We offer prepared vegetable products that not only make it easier for customers to eat more vegetables, but also help them save on cooking time. Our annual Christmas advertising campaign raised more than £500,000 for the Great Ormond Street Hospital through merchandise sales and customer donations. Every Sainsbury’s local charity partnership offers a different mix of money, volunteering time, food donations and support as needed. Our colleagues also donated over half a million pounds through the Payroll Giving scheme to support causes they care about. We are one of just three retailers worldwide to achieve an A rating in the 2016/17 FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. Our aim was to identify which tactics had the biggest impact on reducing food waste, and learn how they could be rolled out in more households. Many people still think that their unwanted clothes won’t make a difference to charities, but at Oxfam we can reuse or recycle almost anything. Engaging colleagues in this collaborative way, and making the most of their expertise, will help to achieve even better results. This transition helps reduce our use of ozone- depleting refrigerant gases, such as hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFC) or hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), which can have a global warming potential that is 3,000 times higher than CO 2 e. The new fridges are also more energy efficient. And in our store support centres, we recruited ten apprentices, including three women, for a new two-year structured software development apprenticeship programme. The challenging trading environment, driven by ongoing competitive retail pricing combined with growing inflationary cost pressures, may adversely impact performance. The Group manages its financing by diversifying funding sources, structuring core borrowings with long-term maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of standby liquidity. 45 Strategic Report 46 Financial Review Dear Shareholder, 2016/17 has been a pivotal year in Sainsbury’s history, with the acquisition of Home Retail Group plc (HRG) on 2 September 2016. Sainsbury’s Bank cost/income ratio has increased by 100 basis points as a result of the strategic costs incurred on products and infrastructure which are expected to drive improved performance in future years. Further the Group has borrowed £138 million via six hire purchase facilities in respect of in-store moveable assets and finance leases. Prior to Sainsbury’s, John was Group Finance Director for Hanover Acceptances, a diversified corporation with wholly- owned subsidiaries in the food manufacturing, real estate and agri-business sectors. He sits on the GS1 apparel Europe board and was previously a Regional manager for Fine Fare (part of Associated British Foods plc). Following this he held a variety of roles in commercial, strategy and finance, most recently as Business Unit Director for Grocery. We are also pleased that Simon Roberts is joining Sainsbury’s as Retail and Operations Director on the Operating Board. We are sorry that Mary Harris will be stepping down from the Board at this year’s AGM having completed over nine years of service as a Non-Executive Director. All members of the Board, other than Mary Harris, will retire and seek election or re-election by shareholders at this year’s AGM. During the search process Ed Barker, Sainsbury's Director of Group Finance, was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer from 5 September 2016 until 9 January 2017. I am also particularly proud of the great progress we have made in Sourcing with integrity, towards developing sustainability standards across our key raw materials. Building on this, we are confident that 2017/18 will be an exciting year for developing our approach to sustainability across the whole Group. Summary annual compliance report Sainsbury’s has invested significant time and resource in providing comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under GSCOP which is reinforced by online knowledge testing. 75 Governance Report Looking ahead Salary review In line with our policy, we have followed our normal approach to the review of salaries for the Executive Directors and have awarded both Mike Coupe and John Rogers a salary increase of 1.5 per cent effective March 2017, in line with other management colleagues. Kevin O’Byrne, who joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer in January 2017, was not eligible for an increase given his start date. John Rogers was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Travis Perkins plc on 1 November 2014 and received £57,052 (2015/16: £56,240) for his services during the year. For 2017/18 both Mike Coupe and John Rogers will receive a salary increase of 1.5 per cent effective March 2017 in line with other management colleagues. Kevin O’Byrne, who joined the Board as CFO in January 2017, was not eligible for an increase given his start date. The targets are set such that considerably stretching performance in excess of internal and external forecasts is required for maximum payout. Appropriate disclosure of any adjustments necessary to ensure performance is assessed on a fair and consistent basis will be provided in next year’s report. 86 Governance Report 86 Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report continued Directors’ appointment dates Mike Coupe 1 August 2007 (appointment as Chief Executive 9 July 2014) John Rogers 19 July 2010 Kevin O’Byrne 9 January 2017 David Tyler 1 October 2009 (Chairman from 1 November 2009) Matt Brittin 27 January 2011 Brian Cassin 1 April 2016 Mary Harris 1 August 2007 David Keens 29 April 2015 Susan Rice 1 June 2013 Jean Tomlin 1 January 2013 Governance – Remuneration Committee Committee membership The Remuneration Committee during the year comprised Mary Harris (Chairman), John McAdam (until 6 July 2016), Susan Rice and Jean Tomlin. Operation Performance measured over one year, after which awards are made as conditional shares (or equivalent) deferred for two financial years. Additionally, as mentioned in the Corporate Responsibility Report, we are looking at forums for our Non-Executive Directors and colleague representatives to discuss key business issues (including remuneration). Eligible colleagues participate in our annual bonus plans which are aligned under a common set of principles with performance metrics tailored to different populations. Senior executives expected to have the greatest influence on Company performance over time are eligible for participation in long-term incentive plans. In such circumstances, the Committee will seek to ensure any buy-out is of comparable commercial value and capped as appropriate. The Committee proactively consults extensively with our major shareholders to ensure that their views are represented in discussions on remuneration matters. Travel and other reasonable expenses (including any associated taxes) incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors. Currently the Group does not expect any material changes to either revenue or profit as a result of adopting IFRS 15. Other key assumptions within this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, including mortality rates, as set out in note 29. These adjusted items are as follows: 2017 £m 2016 £m Underlying profit before tax 581 587 Property related Profit on disposal of properties 98 101 Investment property fair value movements (25) (18) Net impairment and onerous contract charge (37) (1) Argos Transaction costs relating to the acquisition of Home Retail Group (22) (12) Argos integration costs (27) – Homebase separation (4) – Sainsbury’s Bank transition (60) (59) Focus Business rationalisation 72 (3) IT write-offs (57) – Restructuring costs (33) (15) Other Perpetual securities coupons 23 15 Non-underlying finance movements 10 (22) Acquisition adjustments 8 3 Defined benefit scheme financing charge and scheme expenses (24) (28) Total adjustments (78) (39) Profit before tax 503 548 Property related — Profit on disposal of properties for the financial year comprised £101 million for the Group (2016: £100 million) and £(3) million for the property joint ventures (2016: £1 million) included within other income. When the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of five to ten years within administrative expenses. The valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions would not result in any impairment of goodwill. The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a core of long-dated borrowings, pre-funding future cash flow commitments and holding contingent committed credit facilities. Highly probable future cash flows, which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis using foreign currency forward contracts. The Board monitors a broad range of financial metrics including return on capital employed, balance sheet gearing and fixed charge cover. 161 Financial Statements 29 Retirement benefit obligations continued b) Other comprehensive income Re-measurement of the retirement benefit obligations have been recognised as follows: 2017 £m 2016 £m Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 1,182 (16) Actuarial (losses)/gains arising from changes in: Finance assumptions 1 (2,005) 103 Demographic assumptions 2 320 – Experience 96 34 Total actuarial (losses)/gains (1,589) 137 Total re-measurements (407) 121 1 Includes £3 million loss for the unfunded pension scheme (2016: £2 million loss). Currency hedging programmes in both schemes help dampen returns volatility caused by the fluctuation of sterling against other leading currencies. This reflects its fair value at the acquisition date and is estimated to have a useful economic life of ten years. Along with other retailers, the Group is subject to claims in respect of pay rates across supermarket and distribution centre workers. Riverside One Riverside One, Sir John Rogerson's Quay, Dublin 2, Republic of Ireland Queensway House Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, JE1 1ES, Jersey, Channel Islands Hurlawcrook Road Scottish Commercial Office, Hurlawcrook Road, Langlands Park Industrial Estate, East Kilbride, G75 0QH, United Kingdom Units C & D 5/F, D2 Place Two Units C & D 5/F, D2 Place Two, No 15 Cheung Shun Street, Cheung Sha Wan, Kowloon, Hong Kong, Hong Kong Unit 7, Ashbourne Retail Park Unit 7 , Ashbourne Retail Park, Ballybin Road, Ashbourne, Republic of Ireland Unit No. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Dividend cover – Underlying profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by total value of dividends declared during the year.