U and I Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 YOU WILL KNOW US BY THE PLACES WE CREATE Cockpit Yard Springfield Park 10 and 12 Hammersmith Grove 399 Edgware Road Algarve House Future Works Charlton Riverside Circus Street Deptford Market Yard Donnybrook House Friarsgate Shopping Centre Harwell Mill Green Telegraph Works Preston Barracks St Mark’s Square The Horizon Building 8 Albert Embankment The Old Vinyl Factory Mayfield Vertium Blackhorse Road Westminster Industrial Estate Caxton Works Equipment Works Shepherds Bush Market Morden Wharf Spirit of Sittingbourne 60 48 36 24 12 2013 2014 28.1 27.0 35.0 45.7 51.1 2015 2016 2017 300 280 260 240 220 2013 2014 251 262 276 291 278 2015 2016 2017 12 10 8 4 6 2 6 10 7 0.2 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 One year on In our first Annual Report as U+I, we told you about a business with a vision to create long-lasting positive change for communities and sustainable value for our shareholders. What underpins this is our genuine passion for unlocking the potential of undervalued urban sites, transforming them into thriving communities and neighbourhoods. This reduces our risk exposure in any one individual project whilst allowing us to build a portfolio with significant upside potential. Our focus is to hunt for overlooked and undervalued sites in areas of the market where value can be driven through regeneration. There are strong grounds for our positive outlook, which reflect why I am excited to be chairing this company. These will not only deliver sustainable value; they are also an endorsement of U+I’s approach, strategy and growing reputation among public sector decision-makers. I have every confidence that we will produce a record result in the current year, targeting £65-£70 million of development and trading gains. I am optimistic too about our investment portfolio, which is being steadily realigned to reflect the Group’s strategic focus on regeneration. The quarterly Deloitte CFO survey – a key measure of business confidence – shows that most finance directors would still prefer to retain cash than invest it in new projects. This creates a further challenge for retailers, many of which are already struggling as e-commerce becomes ever more prevalent and business rates rise. Against this, development has been limited for almost a decade so the supply of office space is tight and vacancies are low. With low unemployment, companies are striving to attract and retain top talent – dynamic, inspiring office space that encourages collaboration is one important way of doing so. Looking ahead, rising construction costs and an uncertain economic environment are likely to limit the supply of central London office development. Demand is both from end users and housebuilders wanting ‘shovel-ready’ projects which we are able to deliver through our planning expertise. THESE TRENDS SUPPORT U+I’S FOCUS ON WELL-LOCATED, ATTRACTIVE AND HIGH QUALITY DEVELOPMENTS, PRIMARILY FORWARD- FUNDED BY LONG-TERM CAPITAL PARTNERS. Widely seen as an appealing city with strong links to the US, it benefits from a well thought out corporate tax policy which has attracted large numbers of international businesses in recent years. Our focus is to build a pipeline of PPP and trading projects that generate excellent shareholder returns through the property cycle as we realise profits from asset disposals. Our focus for the year ahead is to secure planning consent on a number of projects including Blackhorse Road, Preston Barracks and Kensington Church Street. We maintain an efficient Balance Sheet with appropriate gearing levels and a sizeable cash buffer to keep us stable throughout the property cycle. The creation of specialist platforms allows us to deliver projects in a capital-efficient manner through joint ventures with majority capital partners. We also formed a JV with Proprium Capital Partners to target income-producing long-term development sites within the London City Region. Our focus is to build a pipeline of PPP and trading projects that generate excellent shareholder returns through the property cycle as we realise profits from asset disposals. Our focus for the year ahead is to secure planning consent on a number of projects including Blackhorse Road, Preston Barracks and Kensington Church Street. We maintain an efficient Balance Sheet with appropriate gearing levels and a sizeable cash buffer to keep us stable throughout the property cycle. The creation of specialist platforms allows us to deliver projects in a capital-efficient manner through joint ventures with majority capital partners. We also formed a JV with Proprium Capital Partners to target income-producing long-term development sites within the London City Region. However, construction finance is usually only ever secured on properties where the exit has been guaranteed through pre-sales or forward-funding. – The Group maintains relationships with a wide range of both bank and non-bank lenders, reducing over reliance on any one partner. – The Group’s PPP model seeks to build partnerships with local statutory and planning authorities as a way of mitigating risk. Therefore from any starting point, over a five- year period the vast majority of projects will have moved through to exit. − The Group continues its policy of de-risking developments by obtaining forward-funding for larger schemes and only carrying out limited on balance sheet development. Development and trading portfolio TRADING PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP − Short-term profit flows (1-3 years) − Planning gain is usually key − Arbitrage/mispricing opportunities − IRR of >30% − Equity multiple 1.5X − Large scale mixed-use regeneration projects delivered in partnership (2-5 years) − Max £20m equity in any one project but high upside potential in all − Planning gain is key value driver − Development is key profit driver − Projects de-risked via forward funding or pre-sales − Equity multiple 2.0X – 5.0X A balanced approach to development and trading Project delivery time Gains 26 U and I Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Realised gains Guidance range as at 26 April 2017 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 80 60 40 20 46 65-70 51 40-50 50-60 35 £m £155-£180m £m 3 year target The balance of this activity has enabled us to deliver another strong year of gains as outlined below, building on our strong track record over the past years. Going forwards, in line with our overall returns target of 12 per cent, we are £50m plus pa 12% post-tax total return* Anticipated gains to FY2020 focused on driving £50 million gains from our development and trading activities per annum, with a minimum of £150 million to be delivered over the next three years. This has been a highly successful year for the business, winning four PPP projects: 8 Albert Embankment, Mayfield, Cockpit Yard and Westminster Industrial Estate. It was a challenging decision given the exceptionally high calibre of candidates; however, we were particularly impressed by U+I’s innovative approach. The site, which is close to Birmingham International railway station and airport, will now be developed by Prologis into a 310,000 sq. Optimisation: We have also made good progress to optimise the value of specific assets for example at our retail scheme in Killingworth. By carving out these units from the overall scheme, we will realise disposals at a yield of circa 5.8 per cent. We will continue to invest in our core markets, focusing on assets where performance can be driven through a specific regeneration process. These results were achieved against a backdrop of both political and economic uncertainty following the EU referendum vote in June 2016. The Group’s principal exposure to foreign currency movements is in respect of its €47.0 million Euro- denominated loan notes, Euro-denominated bank loans and property assets. We do this by transforming unloved town centres and brownfield sites into vibrant neighbourhoods, delivering a positive legacy for local residents, or investing in our people. FIELD at Preston Barracks in Brighton illustrates our focus on generating value from the outset by providing work space for local entrepreneurs. FIELD Brighton Based at the Preston Barracks regeneration site in Brighton, FIELD is a hub for start ups that design and make physical products Providing this kind of temporary commercial space allows us to transform disused areas into creative zones and trial features that can be reflected in the final scheme. Our places 49 Strategic report + Corporate governance + Financial statements U and I Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Sustainability review continued This respect for the local heritage embedded in a site was central to our winning proposal for the redevelopment of Mayfield in Manchester. Read more on p.112 Vertium, Dublin 51 Strategic report + Corporate governance + Financial statements U and I Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Sustainability review continued The options for reducing the environmental impact of our investment portfolio are more limited because they are not buildings we have designed or built ourselves. U+I Think is one example of how we promote an intellectually stimulating environment, where new ideas are explored and everyday thinking questioned. We offer an employee assistance programme for people to use if they are suffering from stress and/or have financial, domestic or work-related concerns. Prior to joining the Company, Matthew worked as a Fund Manager at both Legal & General and AXA Investment Management. On 9 December 2015 the Company announced that Peter Williams would be appointed as an independent Non-executive Director, and Chairman designate, with effect from 4 January 2016. Members of the Executive Committee are invited to present on business activities and portfolio updates at each formal Board meeting. Directors are also able to seek independent professional advice as necessary, at the Company’s expense, in respect of their duties. The Committee agreed that it did not consider a permanent internal audit function, either in-house or outsourced, was required at this time. Relocation and expatriate benefits may also be provided, if an existing or new Executive Director is required to relocate. Annual bonus (% of salary) 20.1 R Upton Lead stakeholder engagement programme − Principal spokesperson on all public affairs matters, including several high profile speaking engagements. Annual remuneration report continued 98 U and I Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Payments made/awards granted during the year Development Profit Plan (audited) As previously detailed no further awards have been, or will be, made to Executive Directors under the Development Profit Plan after 1 March 2015. A supplemental dividend of 8.00 pence per share, amounting to £9,997,000 for 2016, was declared post 2016 year end, and therefore not deducted from net assets in 2016. A supplemental dividend of 2.80 pence per share, amounting to £3,506,000 for 2017, was declared post 2017 year end, and therefore not deducted from the net assets in 2017 3. It should be noted that these holdings, and percentage of share capital held, are likely to have changed since the Company was notified. Fugitive emissions data from use of air conditioning was not available for this report; in the absence of data it was considered that a reasonable estimation could not be calculated based on the limited information available c. Scope 2 covers emission from electricity purchased for own use. Management performed an assessment of the net realisable value for each individual asset, including producing and reviewing development appraisals. − IFRS 16, ‘Leases’, was issued in January 2016 and will become mandatory for the accounting period commencing 1 March 2019, with early adoption permitted. Operating properties are valued at each reporting date by independent, professional valuers on the basis of Existing Use Value. Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise amounts that cannot be specifically allocated to operating segments; an analysis is provided below. The different hierarchy levels have been defined as follows: (i) Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The different levels are defined as follows: (i) Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1). As at 28 February 2017, a movement of 50 basis points higher or lower, with all other variables held constant, would have the following effect on profit before tax. Julian Jenkins (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 April 2017 Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. Depreciation is provided so as to write off the cost less estimated residual value of such assets over their expected useful lives on a straight- line basis. In her spare time she is a talented illustrator and this year provided the illustrations for our Annual Report.