it is a well-established specialist market, lending principally to the ‘non-standard’ borrower population – defined as people regularly refused credit by mainstream lenders. by offering small, affordable loans of up to £1,000, either in cash or on a morses club card, we proudly provide our customers with an essential service. these personal connections allow us to know our customers and their needs, developing strong relationships that often endure for many years. 98 branch locations 617 employees c.1,800 self-employed agents branch locations 1 northern ireland 2 scotland 3 north east 4 yorkshire 5 north west 6 midlands 7 london & south east 8 wales & south west 9 south yorkshire and east midlands strategic report governance financial statements annual report and accounts 2017 3 customer satisfaction during fy17 march 2016 april may june july august september october november december january 2017 february 96% 98.5% 97% 98% 96% 96.5% 95% 98% 95.5% 97% 98% 96% customer satisfaction research mustard research, an independent research agency, contact 200 quality customers on our behalf on a monthly basis and conduct short telephone surveys with them; each survey takes about 10 minutes to complete. our customer satisfaction research has allowed us to define what good service looks like for morses club, and identify any areas where we can improve. strategic report morses club plc 4 the agent calls regularly, they are lovely and keep you up to date with everything. between them, they bring a wealth of experience in compliance, financial services, legal, investment banking, accounting, and general business matters to board deliberations. other forms of non-standard credit, eg instalment loans, do not operate in the same way as hcc and rely on fully-online lending. morses club’s hcc business currently operates on an interim permission from the fca whilst application for full authorisation is considered. the platform has also allowed us to automate credit decisions based on policy with minimal levels of intervention or management overrides. building a market-leading uk non- standard consumer finance company – long-established uk home collected credit (hcc) market player with strong returns – proven track record of kpi-enhancing acquisitions and organic growth – prudent credit control and shorter duration loans improve both impairment and profitability – consolidation opportunities created by regulatory change – initiatives to future-proof the core business – highly invested it platform – progressive dividend policy supported by strong cash generation our kpis below comprise a set of performance metrics used by management to help gauge the meaningful progress of our business. management has focused on reducing vacancy rates and optimising territory sizes during the year, rather than increasing absolute agency numbers. the board is keen to emphasise that any increase in gearing will always be firmly founded on our culture of treating customers fairly. director’s remuneration statement continued governance morses club plc 38 performance bonus conditions the performance bonus is payable if the executive director has delivered key objectives, including targeted adjusted profit before tax, promoting good-quality customer outcomes (ie treating customers fairly), maintenance of headline customer satisfaction scores, completing key strategic projects and acquisitions, all underpinned by regulatory compliance. we are committed to offer equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of age, gender, ethnicity, race, religion, belief, sexual orientation, disability, marital status and civil partnership. pre-tax profit was adjusted for initial public offering (“ipo”) costs of £2.2m, as this is a one-off cost and would distort the materiality level. pre-tax profit was adjusted for initial public offering (“ipo”) costs of £2.2m, as this is a one-off cost and would distort the materiality level. ifrs 9 further introduces a revised impairment model which will require entities to recognise expected credit losses based on unbiased forward-looking information. impairment is calculated using models which use historical payment performance to calculate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage. all assumptions are reviewed regularly to take account of differences between previously estimated cash flows on impaired debt and the eventual losses. impairment is calculated using models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage.