economic uncertainty may pose challenges to our standard broking business, but we can balance that by meeting out-of-the-ordinary commercial requirements, helping support disaster relief and, of course, offering the safety management services without which aeroplanes could not fly. indeed, it has perhaps been the most active and successful period we have experienced during my 12 years at air partner. 8 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 explaining our business market overview we have been in aviation services for more than 55 years. the global air charter market is highly fragmented, with low barriers to entry and little or no regulation. clockwork research acquired in december 2016, is a world-leading fatigue risk management consultancy that delivers innovative solutions for clients across various sectors of the aviation industry. • enhance and extend our offer air partner’s aim is to become a global aviation services provider. • maintain and enhance our brand identity with a track record of over 55 years, air partner is well-known in the aviation industry. ramping up our investment 2016 has seen air partner investing significantly in technology as a necessary counterpart to efficient, long-term growth. this will enable us to identify opportunities for cross-selling, which are an integral part of our strategy. as a result, commercial jets liaised with baines simmons and asked them to carry out an audit of the two operators that our client would be using. ‘considerable mutual benefit’ ‘we’ve been going for 12 years and have built up a very good reputation among the big aviation operators,’ she says. ‘we weren’t looking to sell necessarily, but could see that there was a much larger need for our service with the increasing awareness of performance safety and health. however, both of these political events could present opportunities, and we are continuing to evaluate the situation. forward bookings can be impacted very suddenly by changes in financial markets, political instability and natural events affecting the movement of people or cargo from one country to another. strategic report corporate governance financial statements 19 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 risk change in risk assessment strategic initiatives potentially impacted potential impact controls/processes to mitigate market conditions/ cost structure forward visibility into air charter bookings is often measured in days or weeks, rather than months and can be materially affected by changes in financial markets, political instability and natural events affecting the movement of people or cargo from one country to another. customers maintaining brand value limited visibility into future bookings may result in a cost structure that does not align with market conditions. we have a dedicated integration team to ensure that benefits arising from an acquisition are maximised while maintaining control over operations. this partnership strategic report corporate governance financial statements 25 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 highlights of the year £31.7m gross profit £5.1m underlying profit before tax 6.5p underlying eps 5.2p dividend per share • stand-out performance from commercial jets • consulting & training division profitable in first full year of ownership • record jetcard performance “ theseresultsreflectthededicationanddrive ofallourstaff,whocontinuetoputour customersfirst.” provides customers with a one-stop shop for all luxury air and sea-based travel needs. i am very pleased with this maiden performance, and excited that the division is well positioned for future success. a common platform for growth we have maintained our commitment to organic investment in core systems and controls. in the years ahead, we will address these strategic gaps by either building a market-leading position organically or acquiring suitable businesses and platforms. our newly acquired businesses have delivered strong operational performance and made an excellent first full-year financial contribution to the group. neil morris chief financial officer strategic report corporate governance financial statements 29 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 “ inacrowdedmarketwithlowbarrierstoentry,we areabletouseourfinancialpositiontodifferentiate ourservicestokeycustomersthroughourability toofferfavourablecredittermsonlargeprojects.” taxation the group’s underlying effective tax rate for the year was 33% (2016: 30%) and has been affected by an adjustment in respect of prior years totalling £0.4m. the lower rate being due to a reduction in amounts disallowable for tax purposes included within ‘other items’. this year, we have introduced a set of strategic indicators to help us measure progress against our strategy. mixed results from ad hoc business, with corporate customers flying less often, was offset by jetcard, which had another record year. customer first gives us an edge the private jet market is extremely competitive but we believe our customer first strategy, which delivers an unrivalled level of service, particularly for jetcard, together with our financial stability, transparency and security, means we have a unique proposition. by putting our customers first, we continue to provide an unrivalled service, together with a value for money proposition. furthermore, and as discussed, we went into partnership with camper & nicholsons, the luxury yacht specialists, in april 2017. pete tong, british dj, disembarking from one of our private jets charters highlights of the year £10.2m gross profit £2.5m underlying profit • opened new office in new york • record jetcard utilisation £15.9m jetcard deposits strategic report corporate governance financial statements 35 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 222 jetcards key facts: private jets 36 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 2017 performance: divisional reviews continued freight air partner’s freight team delivers bespoke air freight solutions to meet the most demanding schedules, reliably and at the best possible rates. however, overall, freight’s performance reflected the high prior year comparable, boosted by one key contract, which was not renewed. our freight team ensures secure, time critical delivery of cargo all over the world highlights of the year £1.1m gross profit £0.2m underlying profit • challenging year due to loss of key contract • remains a strategic service offering to our customers strategic report corporate governance financial statements 37 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 key facts: freight 445 romanian artefacts 200,000 one-day old chicks 38 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 2017 performance: divisional reviews continued baines simmons is a world-leading aviation safety consultancy which specialises in aviation regulation, compliance and safety management. i have every confidence that together they will bring to fruition the exciting transformation journey set out in this report. they are made public by means of an announcement through a regulatory news service and published on the company’s website. it comprised our independent non-executive directors shaun smith and amanda wills, who appointed external search consultants, ridgeway partners, to support them. the chairman, shaun smith, a qualified corporate treasurer with an honours degree in economics, is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience. given this new policy was adopted during the financial year, management have also applied a retrospective review process to ensure such contracts are captured. reward packages differ, taking into account a number of factors including seniority, role, impact on the business, local practice, custom and legislation. executive directors can receive life assurance, health insurance, car allowance, income protection, critical illness cover and sports club or gym membership. long term incentive plan (ltip) incentivises executives to achieve the company’s long-term strategy and create sustainable shareholder value. contains provisions under which amounts paid out can be clawed back from executive directors in defined circumstances. non-executive directors do not receive benefits, bonuses, long-term incentive awards, a pension or compensation on termination of their appointments. payment table of employee wages and other company metrics 2016-2017 2015-2016 % variance total employee pay compared to prior period (£m) 18,453 15,291 20.68 profit before tax (£m) 1 4,348 3,137 38.92 total dividends paid (pence) 24.93 22.73 9.68 1. the remuneration committee considers profit before tax to be a key measure of the group’s performance, therefore it is shown above. no person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. amounts in respect of unbilled services provided to clients are recognised as revenue at balance sheet date. the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. 93 air partner plc | annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report corporate governance financial statements 2 accounting policies continued p) retirement benefit costs payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense in the period in which the employees render service. rental income or expenditure from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 75, 51429 bergisch gladbach, germany c 1100 lee wagener blvd, suite 328, fort lauderdale, fl 33315, us d postfach 8722, 8036 zurich, switzerland e 2 city place, beehive ring road, gatwick, west sussex, rh6 0pa, uk f via valtellina 67, 20159 milano, italy g yenibosna merkez mah. the group’s policy on foreign currency risk is not to enter into forward contracts until a firm contract has been signed.