I am very pleased that we have again delivered consistent profit growth in line with our stated targets. Historically, we have managed a highly effective product marketing approach, evidenced by industry leading customer acquisition costs in insurance. This gives us further confidence to deliver consistent, sustainable earnings growth through increased efficiency and customer value across the business. This allows us to provide products that offer exceptional levels of service, across multiple categories, at a fair price. Utilising the customer work we will create a platform through which to reward and incentivise our customers to both stay with Saga and deepen their relationship with us, we will launch a Saga membership programme in the second half of this year. It’s really important to us that our people speak up, get heard and we take action when necessary. Scope 3 business travel emissions from rail and air have been identified, but not included in our disclosure due to a lack of accurate data. Assumptions and estimations During this reporting year the Bel Jou hotel in St Lucia was sold on 20 July 2016. There is a continued Scope 2 electricity emissions by reporting type use of electric vehicles in our maintenance fleet, and, where practical, active initiatives to switch off unused equipment. We have created a further two year plan to ensure that these values are completely embedded group wide. Saga has a diversified business model to lessen the potential impact of changes affecting one product or service. This includes a recent add-on that significantly reduces the cost of car insurance, and access to our travel hub. This is currently running in excess of claims inflation, and sets us on a strong footing to improve motor broking profits during the year. Its rigorous focus on these drivers, along with ongoing efficient management of claims, has led to an excellent underwriting result. By broadening our offering within these categories, we are also succeeding in attracting younger, first time buyers to the brand. The profile of these customers tends to be higher value, making them a natural fit for cross-selling and our membership scheme. In both tour operating and cruising, we have already secured the substantial majority of our FY 2018 sales targets. Reservations for departures in FY 2018 as at 18 March 2017 are 8% ahead of the comparable reservation position one year ago. I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered another strong financial performance, with profit before tax from continuing operations 9.7% higher at £193.3m. Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 35 Strategic report Group Chief Financial Officer’s review continued Reserving 12m to Jan 2017 Reserve releases Total Ogden rate changes Underlying Growth 12m to Jan 2016 Motor insurance £59.2m (£3.1m) £62.3m (6.6%) £66.7m Home insurance (£0.1m) – (£0.1m) (150.0%) £0.2m Other insurance £0.8m – £0.8m (27.3%) £1.1m Total £59.9m (£3.1m) £63.0m (7.4%) £68.0m Favourable claims development experience during the twelve months to 31 January 2017 has resulted in a reduction in the reserves required in respect of prior year claims. There has been no deterioration in the underlying reserve margin held as a proportion of best estimate claims reserves year-on-year. He will be replaced as Senior Independent Director by Orna NiChionna, one of our current Non-Executive Directors. 6 Ray King 5 Bridget McIntyre 6 Orna NiChionna 5 Gareth Williams 6 Note: 1 James Arnell resigned on 22 April 2016 and attended all Board meetings prior to his resignation. • Externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation exercise, which included a review of the previous year’s action plans. Lance has worked in consumer-facing businesses and brand-centric roles throughout his career, focusing on creating products that are tailored to the customer. Lance also has a wealth of senior operational experience in listed companies which he brings to his role at Saga. Philip is also the UK Prime Minister’s adviser on corporate responsibility and Chairman of Sentebale, a charity set up by HRH Prince Harry. She brings these skills to the Board along with her considerable experience in other Non- Executive Director roles. He will be replaced as Senior Independent Director by Orna NiChionna, one of our current Non-Executive Directors. We continue to comply with the Code’s recommendation that at least half of our Board members are independent Non-Executive Directors. There was good coverage of the principal risks and subsidiary level governance worked well, with appropriate escalation when necessary. We concluded that it was Important to have the right governance, leadership and independence for such roles. Russell Reynolds Associates were approved as our search consultants and will map candidates against skills sets identified. Our policy is to appoint the best possible candidate, considered on merit and against objective criteria (and in accordance with the Equality Act 2010), rather than to set quotas for a particular aspect that may deflect from achieving this fundamental target every time. The financial crime, data and information security committee provides an additional forum to consider specialist risks arising in these areas. Risk registers have been created for each business to capture their key risks, associated controls and incidents. Time spent on matters 1 Financial statements 15% 2 Internal financial controls 19% 3 Internal Audit 25% 4 Business reviews 17% 5 External audit 24% 1 2 3 5 4 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 58 Our terms of reference Our terms of reference were reviewed by the Committee and subsequently approved by the Board on 20 September 2016. We considered investments made by asset/fund managers on our behalf and were reassured that these followed ethical guidelines. • Reviewed the relationship with V Ships and our requirement for them to operate at ‘beyond compliance’ levels. • Discussed whether any additional cover was required, specifically in relation to the threat of financial crime or cybercrime. We set ourselves the target of providing information to our shareholders that is timely, clear and concise. Saga has a diverse shareholder register which is formed of both institutional and retail ownership, the latter numbering over 180,000. This includes reference to the views of key shareholders, including their concerns, along with any new analyst research. Dear Shareholder, This year, the business has made significant progress with our key strategic initiatives whilst delivering another robust financial performance. The Executive Directors receive family private health cover, death in service life assurance, a car allowance and subsistence expenses. Two thirds of the total bonus to be paid immediately in cash and one-third deferred into shares for three years. As at 31 January 2017, 1,118,005,405 ordinary shares of 1p each have been issued, are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange. On 23 March 2017, Artemis Investment Management LLP disclosed information in accordance with DTR5, disclosing a holding of 111,601,253 ordinary shares (9.98%, Indirect). However, at the current time, we are not aware of any critical or material contracts that pose such a threat. ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there may be pressures or incentives on Management to commit fraudulent financial reporting through inappropriate revenue recognitions. In determining and applying accounting policies, Directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the Group’s reported financial position, results or cash flows; it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate. A discussion on the Group’s significant accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed in note 2.5. The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently, unless otherwise stated, are set out in note 2.3 below. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other available fair value indicators. Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (‘EIR’) method, less impairment losses. Impairment losses on available for sale equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement, but those on available for sale debt instruments are reversed if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a subsequent event. Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 119 118 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) t. Retirement benefit schemes During the year, the Group operated a number of defined benefit pension plans which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds. Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. A further reduction to 17% from 1 April 2020 was announced on 16 March 2016 and has been enacted at the balance sheet date. Financial assets 2017 £’m 2016 £’m Fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.7 3.3 Fuel oil swaps 1.3 – Loan funds 6.5 19.3 Hedge funds 22.7 26.7 34.2 49.3 Fair value through the hedging reserve Foreign exchange forward contracts 47.3 16.7 Fuel oil swaps 1.2 – 48.5 16.7 Loans and receivables Deposits with financial institutions 309.5 413.6 309.5 413.6 Available for sale investments Debt securities 79.5 85.2 Money market funds 122.1 75.9 Unlisted equity shares 1.3 0.2 Loan notes 5.2 3.8 208.1 165.1 Total financial assets 600.3 644.7 Current 310.5 288.8 Non-current 289.8 355.9 600.3 644.7 Debt securities, money market funds and deposits with financial institutions relate to monies held by the Group’s insurance business and are subject to contractual restrictions and are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group. It is the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes may be undertaken. The Group uses derivatives for hedging its exposure to foreign currency, fuel oil prices and interest rate risks. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. Cash flow projections are undertaken for PPO claims to estimate the gross and net of reinsurance provisions required. They are thus required to maintain specified liquidity and diversification characteristics of their underlying portfolios which comprise investment grade investments in financial institutions. These amounts held are not readily available to be used for other purposes within the Group and total £206.4m (2016: £156.6m). As at 31 January 2017, amounts owing to these subsidiaries of WNS (Holdings) Limited for fees and repair costs totalled £2.2m (2016: £1.5m). Consenting shareholders will be notified either by post or email if preferred each time the Company publishes shareholder information.