crawshaw has demonstrated its ability to manage a major change agenda in parallel with evaluating the ongoing potential of our store rollout programme. our customers wanted to see some of the old fresh meat pack sizes, price points and offers that were previously on sale in their specific store. as previously communicated, this improvement in both sales and customer number momentum has required a moderate level of margin investment. our teams have reintroduced a number of store specific favourite dishes to the ‘butcher’ s kitchen’ menu and continuously test new dishes/recipes with input from their customers. this provides customers with a great choice of meal occasion, such as cooked whole chickens, chicken portions, pork loins, gammon joints and ham shanks. accordingly, we have signed the lease for our next factory shop which is scheduled to open in may, with a sufficient pipeline and capability to open a further 4 factory shops during fy 2018. outlook for 2018 the uk grocery market will remain competitive and, with industry-wide pressures emerging in commodities and labour costs, the uk consumer outlook will continue to be more challenging than we have seen in recent years. hot and cold cooked food we have a wide range of products sold either (i) loose in a serve over counter for the traditional experience or (ii) as multi buy packs on supermarket style multi deck counters which have all been cut and packaged in store. company secretary alan richardson company number 04755803 registered office unit 4, sandbeck way hellaby industrial estate rotherham south yorkshire s66 8ql auditors kpmg audit plc 1 sovereign square sovereign street leeds ls1 4da bankers royal bank of scotland plc yorkshire corporate banking 3rd floor 2 whitehall quay leeds ls1 4hr nominated adviser and broker peel hunt llp 1 20 london wall london ec2y 5et registrars and receiving agents capita asset services northern house woodsome park fenay bridge huddersfield hd8 0ga solicitors atticus legal llp castlefield house liverpool road castlefield manchester m3 4sb 11 crawshaw group plc annual report 52 weeks ended 29 january 201 7 strategic report governance financial statements directors’ report the directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group together with audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 january (2016: 52 week period). the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. it is the company’s policy to review trade and other receivable balances for evidence of impairment at each reporting date.