this investment gives the group an entry into a rapidly growing market with enormous potential for profitable growth. this has been a very busy year for the group as we have integrated acquisitions, launched new products and adapted to regulatory changes whilst still delivering strong organic growth. we are confident of delivering further success in the year ahead and continued progress against our growth strategy. i would like to thank each and every one of my colleagues for their hard work during the year. it is therefore important that the group remains up to date with all changes affecting its tax position. for example, the system is designed to flag up immediately any unusual transactions such as high value and number of deposits in a day, deposits made in accounts which already have a significant balance and types of methods used for withdrawals especially where these differ from the deposit method. the board believes that adjusted basic earnings per share (excluding exceptional items such as impairment, contingent remuneration and consideration, acquisition costs, amortisation of intangible assets excluding those arising from internal development, share-based payments and associated taxes) enables a better understanding of the underlying business performance. as a result of this review management determined that the weaker than expected social gaming market had an adverse effect on the projected value in use of that social gaming cash generating unit and consequently these intangible assets have been written down to their assessed value in use. refer to note 12. available-for-sale reserve gains/losses arising on fair value movement of financial assets classified as available for sale. lifetime ecl will be recognised on assets for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the profit or loss account. all financial liabilities are classified as amortised cost with the exception of contingent consideration which is at fair value through profit or loss. player liabilities are the amounts that customers place in their accounts along with any bonuses and progressive jackpots. capitalised development costs are subject to amortisation over its useful life and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. this has been determined from value in use calculations based on cash flow projections covering the following five-year period and a calculation into perpetuity. senior management monitors psp balances on a weekly basis, including aged debtor analysis, and promptly takes corrective action if pre-agreed limits are exceeded. similarly, they monitor the b2b platform providers for any potential issues and take prompt action if pre-agreed limits are exceeded.