Read more on page 12 Greenhills Resources – Developing a significant stand-alone pan-African portfolio of mineable tin assets. Read more on page 22 Lemur Resources – Developing an integrated thermal coal mining and Independent Power Producer ‘IPP’ asset in Madagascar. • Exposure to the vanadium market that is in structural deficit, with significant headroom for price growth. I am pleased to report that the Company has been disciplined and consistent in delivering on this strategy. Bushveld Energy has established an invaluable working relationship with its local partner, the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa. It happens, however, amidst a time of significant uncertainty in the global political and economic sphere. We watch this election process, one of the most contested in recent years, with much interest. Ian Watson Non-Executive Chairman “ I am pleased to report that the Company has been disciplined and consistent in delivering on this strategy. It currently has an approximate 3.5% share of global supply capacity and provides a solid platform for growing this production base. Vametco has an ungeared financial position and a healthy cash generation ability which enabled BVL to fund the acquisition largely through debt. We believe that the answer to these hurdles lies in a vertically integrated business model involving low-cost vanadium production assets. I am pleased that in the review period Bushveld added to its strategic relationship with technology partner UniEnergy Technologies, a leading US-based manufacturer of large-scale VRFBs, by signing a Cooperation Agreement with the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa. Following approval, Bushveld Minerals will commence with activities to delineate the project’s extensive shallow resource. As a consequence of this transaction, the local landowners and affected communities’ shareholding in Vametco increased from 3.75% to about 12%. SCALABILITY 4 Scale, combined with the other three criteria, will allow for a multiplier of exit value to be achieved. It also places our projects on the radar of major industry participants, creating significant opportunities for partnerships and/or outright sale. Greenhills Resources’ tin assets are typically open-cast propositions whose metallurgy is generally amenable to simple gravity-based processing with good recoveries. Tin processing plants can be built in small, modular and scalable format, which allows for modest initial capex requirements. The Uis project in Namibia already has a mining license with an old pilot processing plant which, when refurbished, will provide proof-of-concept tin concentrate production. Greenhill Resources’s tin assets provide a critical mass of mineable deposits that will form the basis for its scale-up plans. An application for a Mining Right was lodged in March 2015 and is currently still being processed by South Africa’s Department of Minerals Resources. Vametco operates an open pit mine supplying ore to its vanadium processing plant located on the same properties. The mineral resource is estimated to be 136Mt (JORC) with average grades of 2.10% V 2 O 5 in magnetite. Vametco operates an open pit mine supplying ore to its vanadium processing plant located on the same properties. The mineral resource is estimated to be 136Mt (JORC) with average grades of 2.10% V 2 O 5 in magnetite. Reserves and resources are based on the April 2016 completed competent person’s report (prepared by VBKom). Processing Vametco employs the standard salt roast and leach process to produce a trademark vanadium carbon nitride (VCN) product called Nitrovan ™ . Among them, they bring experience from every primary vanadium mining and processing operation in South Africa. Eng) Chief Executive Officer • CEO & Chairman of Vametco since April 2011; • Formerly General Works Manager for Xstrata Vanadium’s Rhovan Integrated Vanadium Operations in SA, a position held since mid-2005; • Malcolm previously held a range of senior management positions with Xstrata SA from Production Manager to Operations Manager at Rhovan, Vantech and Lydenburg Operations, from 1995; • Now President of Vanitec for second term running. Bushveld can mitigate this risk through its large, high-grade, low-cost resource base and scalable processing capacity. VRFBs have several features that make them ideal for utility scale, stationary energy storage applications: a) Lifespan cycles – able to charge and discharge repeatedly (>35,000 times) giving it a long (>20 years) lifespan; b) Capacity for 100% discharge without performance degradation is unique; c) Capacity to store large quantities of energy and scalable up into the MW-range; d) Very fast response time (<70kms); e) Only one battery element – therefore no cross-contamination – unique among flow batteries; and f) 100% of vanadium is reusable upon decommissioning of the system. It showed that the three main uses for VRFBs in Africa are expected to be energy-intensive storage applications requiring locational flexibility. Initial estimates show highly favourable internal rates of return at globally competitive electrolyte pricing, and these are being detailed via a financial model. The largest cost driver for electrolyte production is operating expenses, of which over 85% are reagent costs, primarily vanadium. Based on the highly favourable findings and recommendations of the techno-economic study, both Bushveld Energy and the IDC have decided to pursue this opportunity further by: • Studying possible locations within South Africa for the electrolyte production facility, taking into account environmental requirements, logistics costs, ability to in-stream with existing vanadium processing and government incentives; Projects Overview continued 21 Bushveld Minerals Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Administration Governance Business Review MW/annum 0 20,000 Middle East & North Africa 40,000 60,000 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 80,000 100,000 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 US$ Millions/annum Sub-Saharan Africa La n America & Caribbean Eastern Europe & Central Asia South Asia East Asia & Paciﬁc Total Revenue Mr. Mikhail Nikomarov CEO of Bushveld Energy Mr. Mikhail Nikomarov is an entrepreneur and African energy expert who has worked on strategic and operational energy issues across four continents, including eight African countries. In this market, the vanadium redox flow batteries are well positioned to take a significant share of the stationary energy storage market, on account of unique features that give them an edge in large-scale, stationary and long duration energy storage applications. The ESS market is also expanding into long duration systems, which prioritise energy (watt hours) over power (watts). Although lithium ion technology currently dominates the ESS market globally, deployment of large VRFBs is also increasing. Such battery sizes are ideal for utilites that plan to use all the capabilities of ESS, including its location benefits within a distribution network. Projected Annual Stationary Energy Storage Deployments, Power Capacity and Revenue by Region Source: International Finance Corporation, Navigant Research 2017. In June 2016, Bushveld Minerals presented the results from pilot-scale metallurgical test work and plant design at its Groenfontein Tin Deposit. The Groenfontein test work was intended to assess tin recovery on a plant-scale, gain insight into potential concentrate grades, and fine-tune plant flowsheet design parameters. At the time of compiling this report, Greenhills and VBKoM were still in discussions regarding an optimal project development strategy. Greenhills Resources is an attractive stand-alone platform with quality strategic partners and a strong dedicated management team to deliver long-term shareholder value. During its due diligence on the Uis Project, Greenhills’s technical team identified large mineralised pegmatite ore bodies with localised samples of >0.3% Sn commonly found in greisenised zones. Greenhills also found that the old existing plant at Uis could be refurbished for an initial 10tph pilot scale production of tin concentrate while geological work was undertaken to confirm a JORC compliant resource in support of feasibility studies towards larger scale production. An existing pilot plant at the Uis Mine is currently being used to test gravity separation using jigs, spirals and shaking tables, with over 2 tons of cassiterite concentrate produced thus far. These countries are leading global electronic producers and consumers for consumer electronics in which tin is used extensively as solder. In March 2017 , the company finalised an MOU with Sinohydro, to cooperate on a technical and, potentially, financial basis. Finally, Lemur has initiated preliminary project finance discussions with financial institutions, which it will progress upon the successful completion of a favourable BFS by Sinohydro. Overall, the plant commissioning date is expected in 2020/21, subject to approvals and financial close on approximately US$200 million of funding. The Mining Charter outlines several metrics spanning equity participation, management representation and preferential procurement, among others. Bushveld Minerals has over the years attracted a highly experienced team with multi-disciplinary skills who all share our long-term vision. In 1998 he listed McCreedy Friedlander as part of a financial services group on the JSE and shortly afterwards relocated to London. Details of the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange and other financial risks are included in note 19. state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU; and iv. Operational management is also supported technically through the consultancy agreement with VM Investment Company (Proprietary) Limited. Group Board meetings may be held via teleconference although whenever practically possible the Directors will endeavour to attend in person. When necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the Group’s accounting policies. This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. There are no formal procedures in place for monitoring and collecting amounts owed to the Group. On 15 June 2017 , BVL announced it had fully settled the US$11.0 million Barak Fund SPC Limited bridge loan plus US$961,010 in fees and interest to complete payment of all outstanding obligations in terms of the bridge loan facility agreement. Lemur has to date completed a conceptual study, followed by more detailed pre-feasibility studies (“PFS”) for the mine, power plant and transmission line. • Due diligence confirms large well developed pegmatite ore body with 0.3% Sn commonly found in greisenised zones, estimated to host approximately 20,000 tons of tin. 58 Bushveld Minerals Annual Report 2017 Administration Notice of Annual General Meeting BUSHVELD MINERALS LIMITED (incorporated in Guernsey under registered number 54506) Registered Office: 18–20 Le Pollet St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 1WH 21 August 2017 THIS DOCUMENT AND THE ACCOMPANYING FORM OF PROXY IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION. If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial advisor who specialises in advising on shares or other securities and who is, in the case of UK shareholders, authorised under the Financial Services and Market Act 2000. That A. Viljoen shall be re-elected as a Director, having retired by rotation and offered himself for re-election. That G. Sproule shall be re-elected as a Director, having retired by rotation and offered himself for re-election. 60 Bushveld Minerals Annual Report 2017 Notes www.bushveldminerals.com MINERALS Annual Report 2017 61 Bushveld Minerals Annual Report 2017 Company Information REGISTERED OFFICE 18-20 Le Pollet St Peters Port Guernsey GY1 1WH PRINCIPAL OPERATING ADDRESS Illovo Edge Office Park Building 3 2nd Floor Corner Harries and Fricker Roads Illovo, 2116 Johannesburg South Africa NOMINATED ADVISOR Strand Hanson Limited 26 Mount Row London W1K 3SQ JOINT BROKER Mirabaud Securities LLP 33 Grovenor Place London SWIX 7HY JOINT BROKER Beaufort Securities Limited 131 Finsbury Pavement London EC2A 1NT SOLICITORS TO THE COMPANY AS TO ENGLISH LAW Wragge Lawrence Graham & Co LLP 4 More London Riverside London SE1 2AU LEGAL COUNSEL TO THE COMPANY AS TO GUERNSEY LAW Carey Olsen Carey House Les Banques St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 4BZ LEGAL COUNSEL TO THE COMPANY AS TO SOUTH AFRICA LAW Edward Nathan Sonnenbergs 150 West Street Sandown Sandton Johannesburg 2196 South Africa INDEPENDENT AUDITOR RSM UK Audit LLP 25 Farringdon Street London EC4A 4AB