Revenue in Eddie Stobart Logistics: +14.8% Highlights • ESL traded ahead of the previous year and won several new business contracts with high profile customers. 03 Stobart Group Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2017 For more information visit: www.stobartgroup.co.uk/investors STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIVISIONAL MEDIUM- TERM OBJECTIVE PROGRESS TOWARDS MEDIUM-TERM OBJECTIVE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 2018 OBJECTIVES Energy Supply over 2mt of biomass annually by 2018 at £10 EBITDA per tonne. E N V I R O N ME NT A L I MP A C T (TONNES CO 2 PER £M OF REVENUE) +0.0% 207 183 17 16 ACCIDENT/INCIDENT RATE ACCIDENT/INCIDENT RATE -0.0% 0.13 0.05 0.16 17 16 15 REVENUE (£M) REVENUE (M) +0.0% 126.7 116.6 129.4 17 16 15 UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE (PENCE) UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (PENCE) +0.0% 5.0 2.6 8.0 17 16 15 UNDERLYING EBITDA (£M) UNDERLYING EBITDA (£M) +0.0% 30.0 17.6 35.0 17 16 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE (PENCE) RESULT (M) +0.0% 2.68 (2.67) 17 16 (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX (£M) RESULT (M) +0.0% 10.0 (9.4) (8.0) 17 16 15 NET DEBT (£M) +0.0% 48.0 19.1 120.7 17 16 15 08 Stobart Group Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Success and succession We have made further solid progress across all our divisions at Stobart Group this year including taking full ownership of our airline, Stobart Air, and aircraft leasing business, Propius, and increasing the number of routes from London Southend Airport. 2012: Invested in Stobart Air, a Dublin-based regional airline that now operates under the Aer Lingus brand, and an aircraft leasing business. Our Energy, Aviation and Rail civil engineering businesses are all well placed for profitable growth over the next five years. The non-rail business has also supported infrastructure projects in our Energy and Aviation divisions by providing an efficient low-cost value engineering construction solution. This is a great example of how we have created significant value for the Group and our shareholders. I am confident that his business experience and entrepreneurial approach will be a key part in the next chapter of Stobart Group’s value creation. These all create additional value for the Group and will be an important part of further developing London’s best airport. There is also a lot of space to develop our property assets at the airport which could be used for maintenance and other businesses. Our aircraft leasing business, Propius, supports Stobart Air and together they will be developed to create more value for the Group. T ogether with an innovative approach, design capability, planning and low cost execution, they provide value engineering across the Group. We incurred significant and excess costs at our Widnes processing site based on a delay of two months in the renewable energy plant requiring fuel. Stobart Energy will supply 270,000 tonnes of biomass fuel under a 16-year contract with the plant owner, Tilbury Green Power Limited (TGP). Furthermore, discussions with several airlines about material capacity growth for 2017/18 are well advanced, despite a brief hiatus following the Brexit vote. It is a respected regional airline currently operating under both the Aer Lingus and Flybe brands with 17 modern ATR aircraft carrying c.2m customers per annum. In September, Stobart Rail was awarded a Logistics, Storage and Transport Major Incident Response contract from the Environment Agency. With no major change in overall strategy, we will continue to serve contracts both directly and indirectly for Network Rail. We hope to take advantage of current successes such as the Far North Contract, and increase our railway maintenance associated business. The site is to be developed by Stobart Rail and will be used by Stobart Energy as a waste wood processing site, to service its 20-year fuel supply agreement with the newly constructed T empleborough biomass CHP (Combined Heat and Power) Plant, located in Rotherham. • Stobart Group promotes a ‘Just Culture’ which encourages open and fair reporting, enabling clear lines of communication throughout the business. This would have a significant impact on the Group’s revenues and profits, as activities could be curtailed whilst remedial actions were taken. There is a comprehensive internal operational audit programme to provide management with independent assurance that requirements are being met. BUSINESS AREA ENERGY Potential Impact If one or more of our significant customers fail, revenues/ profits will be impacted. Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures of £13.4m (2016: £13.4m) represents interest-bearing loans to renewable energy plant investments in which we also hold equity interests. Post Balance Sheet Events In April 2017, the Group entered an arrangement to sell and leaseback eight ATR 72-600 aircraft. The divisional senior managers also identify, through continuous monitoring and review, where potential new hazards could emerge within our business. Since June 2016 over 70% of our driving workforce have been appraised, with the remaining appraisals scheduled to be completed by summer 2017. Responsible Environmental Efficiency Whilst it is not compulsory for Stobart Group to report on emissions of greenhouse gases, we follow guidance detailed within the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic and Directors’ Report Regulation 2013) as we are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our operations. This initiative provides all employees with an incentive of £50 to become more involved in their local community or charitable activities. Mike was also one of six judges for the Young Entrepreneurs 2016, in which High School from Rochford competed. Stobart Group Career Ending Insurance Stobart Group pioneered a posterior site sponsorship agreement with the Professional Jockeys Association (PJA) and the Irish Jockey’s Association (IJA) which run until 2018, providing insurance to jockeys should they sustain a career ending injury. Iain’s experience includes a 26-year career at Unilever, which he joined following his graduation from the University of St Andrews. Mark has held senior finance roles in a number of listed companies, most recently as Interim CFO for Pets at Home Group plc. It provides a robust solution which facilitates better Board communications for increased engagement and effective decision-making while enhancing corporate governance. It was noted that having a stable Board team for nearly three years had been helpful in building knowledge, trust and effectiveness. 48 Stobart Group Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Shareholder Relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with its shareholders. Stobart Group has a business systems internal audit function which reviews performance against the agreed policies and procedures. Shareholders were asked to provide their views and any feedback on the Policy in preparation for AGM approval. As such, the Committee resubmits this Policy to shareholders with only minor changes for approval at our AGM on 29 June 2017. Annual bonus (Variable pay) T o reward the achievement of short-term strategic objectives and motivate executives to achieve stretching profit goals. All employees are also eligible to join the Company auto-enrolment pension scheme where contributions vary depending on service or contract. • T o determine any additional cash and/or benefits to replace awards relinquished by new recruits at a former employer under Listing Rule 9.4.2R. A similar process for target-setting would be applied in the event that any additional financial performance metric was included. For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the previous role will be honoured. Communication is encouraged through various methods including our divisional employee forums which are led by Executive Director, Richard Butcher. Remuneration for 2017 includes pay received in respect of his role as an Executive Director from 1 March 2016 to 8 July 2016. The bonus received for financial year ended 28 February 2017 is pro-rated based on his Executive Director role from 1 March 2016 to 8 July 2016. Performance against targets and consequent bonus payments will be disclosed in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration. Both performance measures will be measured over the period from 1 March 2016 to 28 February 2019 (covering three full financial years). Additional fees for chairing a Board Committee and fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director will remain unchanged. Within this survey there were five employee engagement index questions which gave a very pleasing average score of 87%. Our next steps and priorities for 2018 can be found in the People section of this report on page 36. In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: • Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently. • State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. The classification of properties as own use, investment property, held for sale (“HFS”) or inventory is based on how the property is initially, and subsequently, used and intentions for future use or disposal, which can change periodically, leading to a risk that properties may not be appropriately classified. The Directors also exercise judgement in choosing the most appropriate valuation methodology, which contains a mix of independent valuation of properties, internal value in use and net realisable value calculations, supported by external assumptions where applicable, for own use properties and inventory. The classification of properties as own use, investment property, held for sale (“HFS”) or inventory is based on how the property is initially, and subsequently, used and intentions for future use or disposal, which can change periodically, leading to a risk that properties may not be appropriately classified. The Directors also exercise judgement in choosing the most appropriate valuation methodology, which contains a mix of independent valuation of properties, internal value in use and net realisable value calculations, supported by external assumptions where applicable, for own use properties and inventory. Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition- date fair value can be measured reliably. Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the Consolidated Income Statement. Other non- financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Investment properties acquired as part of a business combination are recognised initially at fair value and exclude transaction costs. Further information, including carrying values and impairment charges during the year, is set out in note 13 on page 98. Staff costs include £nil (2016: £405,000) of driver wages recharged from companies in the Group headed by Greenwhitestar Holding Company 1 Limited as their employment transfer under TUPE regulations was only completed on 4 April 2015. Stobart Group Limited’s affairs are conducted such that it is considered to be resident in the UK for tax purposes. As part of the March 2016 Budget, a further reduction to 17% (effective from 1 April 2020) was announced and substantively enacted in September 2016. Carrying amounts of goodwill and brand names with indefinite lives allocated to each CGU are set out below. This is a key assumption because it determines how long pensions are paid for when they come into payment. 32 Post Balance Sheet Events In April 2017, the Group entered an arrangement to sell and leaseback eight ATR 72-600 aircraft.