Glencore’s balance sheet has never been stronger and our investment case, underpinned by our leading marketing and industrial asset businesses, has never been better Capitalising on a strong operating environment After an encouraging end to 2016, which saw commodities recover from cycle lows, positive momentum continued through 2017, resulting in prolonged outperformance of Glencore’s key commodities versus the broader markets. Traditional miner Marketer Glencore Logistics/ marketing Blending/ optimisation Processing/ refining Extraction/ production Exploration 18 Glencore Annual Report 2017 Our marketing business We move commodities from where they are plentiful to where they are needed G e o g ra p h i c arbitrage Disparity Different prices for the same product in different geographic regions, taking into account transportation and transaction costs. P r od u ct arbitrage Disparity Pricing differences between blends, grades or types of commodity, taking into account processing and substitution costs. Execution Ensure optionality with commodity supply contracts, and look to lock-in profitable price differentials through blending, processing or end-product substitution. We aim to increase returns on capital and cash flows while targeting a maximum 2x Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA ratio throughout the cycle. Senior subject matter experts participate in the assurance programme; our Board receives reports on its findings, which are actively followed up and verified. Our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) reflects the total number of LTIs per million hours worked and does not include restricted work injuries or fatalities. We are investing in a number of low carbon energy projects that address direct and indirect emissions from our operations. Furthermore we completed our high-risk site assessments related to water and set up a process for the internal sharing of best water-related practices. Community investment spend (US$ million) 2015 90 84 94 90 2016 2017 Community complaints 2015 1,063 963 1,741 1,063 2016 2017 Sustainable development continued 2015 2,129 2,025 2,111 2,129 2016 2017 Total amount of hazardous and non-hazardous mineral waste generated (million tonnes) 2015 358 402 366 358 2016 2017 Sulphur dioxide emissions (thousand tonnes) 34 Glencore Annual Report 2017 explicitly aligns our security procedures with the United Nations Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). We engage with a broad range of stakeholders, including civil society, governments and our customers, to promote responsible commodity sourcing. During 2017, in Australia, we negotiated new enterprise agreements (EAs) with local Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) lodges at 13 of our coal operations. At our Oaky North mine we have been negotiating with the CFMEU on a new agreement for nearly three years. It contains our clear position on bribery and corruption: the offering, paying, authorising, soliciting or accepting of bribes is unacceptable. In countries with low levels of internet access we have telephone numbers, made known to our people via notice boards. In particular, catastrophic hazards such as tailings leakages and collapses of pit walls or underground tunnels represent significant unquantifiable risks for resources companies. Government policy decisions can be very important, e.g. in reducing the demand for coal or increasing its pricing (via carbon taxes) – see Emissions and climate change below. In December 2017 the United States government designated Dan Gertler and affiliated companies as Specially Designated Nationals (SDNs), thereby imposing blocking sanctions on them and companies owned 50% or more by them, under Executive Order 13818, titled “Blocking the Property of Persons Involved in Serious Human Rights Abuses or Corruption”. We seek to manage the risk of breaching applicable laws and external requirements through our policy framework which is described on page 91. However, there can be no assurance that such policies, procedures and controls will adequately protect the Group against fraud, corruption, sanctions breaches or other unlawful activities. These include unanticipated variations in grade and other geological problems (so that anticipated or stated reserves, may not conform to expectations). Although the Group has various structures in place which seek to protect its position where it does not exercise control, these other shareholders may have interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Inevitably, every mine will reach a point of depletion where it is no longer economic to operate and must be closed in an orderly fashion. Reflecting these improved fundamental physical commodity market conditions, with solid growth in volumes handled, particularly copper, cobalt, zinc and ferroalloys, Marketing’s Adjusted EBIT was $2.0 billion, up 28% compared to 2016. Looking ahead, global supply is expected to be impacted by ageing assets, limited sector reinvestment, a diminished project pipeline and elevated risk of mine disruptions. Such positive fundamentals, backed by strong physical activity and significant draws in global inventory, drove nickel premiums to record highs. Consequently, the nickel market remained in material supply deficit for a second year running, enabling global stocks to draw down quickly despite headline LME inventory suggesting otherwise. The year started with a series of environmental and price-driven Chinese stainless steel mill closures, which temporarily impacted chrome demand. For 2018, while overall supply of iron ore may increase, we could see a decrease in low grade cargoes exported to China. Shutdown of illegal capacities and winter production cuts in China demonstrated the government’s willingness to enforce its environmental policies. Financial information US$ million 2017 2016 Change % Revenue ◊ Copper assets African copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani) 2,695 1,839 47 Collahuasi 1 1,303 1,006 30 Antamina 1 1,199 820 46 Other South America (Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui) 2,394 2,257 6 Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar) 1,965 1,799 9 Custom metallurgical (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR) 7,957 6,572 21 Intergroup revenue elimination (295) (429) n.m. Copper 17,218 13,864 24 Zinc assets Kazzinc 3,075 2,602 18 Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River) 1,362 1,133 20 European custom metallurgical (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva, Nordenham, Northfleet) 1,273 1,209 5 North America (Matagami, Kidd, Brunswick, CEZ Refinery) 1,790 1,030 74 Other Zinc (Argentina, Bolivia, Peru, Rosh Pinah 2 , Perkoa 2 ) 695 537 29 Zinc 8,195 6,511 26 Nickel assets Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk) 1,323 1,432 (8) Australia (Murrin Murrin) 598 503 19 Nickel 1,921 1,935 (1) Ferroalloys 2,111 1,873 13 Aluminium/Alumina 3 13 (77) Metals and minerals revenue ◊ 29,448 24,196 22 1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs. By mid-year the benchmark slipped to $45 per barrel as market sentiment weakened, amidst events that increased concerns about oversupply and global inventories remaining stubbornly high. Underlying performance was within expectations in a difficult trading environment, characterised by relatively low prices and volatility, which limited arbitrage opportunities. This has been an important area of focus for us in the past few months, as detailed further on pages 92 and 97. Even today we find it challenging to fill positions in remote mining locations and for the marketing of commodities by women. Management monitors the publication of new reporting standards and works closely with our external auditor in evaluating their impact, if any. Business risk summaries showing positional exposure and other relevant metrics, together with potential margin call requirements, are also circulated daily. In addition, VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by the Group, nor are these VaR results considered indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results. The full- and half-year reporting is followed by investor meetings in a variety of locations where we have institutional shareholders. A holder of ordinary shares can lose 107 Glencore Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares. Judgement is required to determine when risks and rewards have transferred under certain contractual arrangements with third parties, especially on or around year-end. These adjustments do not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated income, financial position or cash flows of Glencore. These items do not form part of the Group’s internally or externally monitored primary key performance indicators, and which if included, would distort materiality year-on-year. 119 Glencore Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Net assets 59 7 34 Revenue 95 3 2 Adjusted EBITDA 80 11 9 Coverage (%) ● Full scope audit ● Speciﬁed audit procedures ● Analytical procedures Components are scoped based on their contribution to financial metrics (revenue, EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA), production and qualitative criteria, such as being a significant development project or exhibiting particular risk factors. Where fair value measurements cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and other valuation methods. CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS. Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances. Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and included in cost of goods sold. For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges. Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold. As a result, the full carrying value of these assets/projects was impaired, with $186 million recognised in our Metals and minerals segment. However, in January 2018, the DRC parliament passed a revised mining code which raises taxes and ceases existing tax stability agreements. Goodwill impairment testing Given the nature of each CGU’s activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place. Although Glencore holds a 25% interest in Russneft, it does not exercise significant influence over its financial and operating policy decisions. SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Société Nationale d’Électricité (SNEL), the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s (DRC) national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencore’s operations will contribute $389 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems. Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances. For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges. It is expected that adjustments could be made to the allocation of value between fixed asset classes, deferred taxes, rehabilitation and other provisions. Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencore’s commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such. Financial and capital risk management continued Market risk VaR (one-day 95% confidence level) ranges and year-end positions were as follows: US$ million 2017 2016 Year-end position 18 31 Average during the year 25 42 High during the year 41 101 Low during the year 13 16 VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results. Glencore’s debt related payments (both principal and interest) are primarily denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into U.S. dollars. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. Any potential liability arising from these allegations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows. These collective expressions are used for ease of reference only and do not imply any other relationship between the companies.