our strategy is to continue growing through organic improvement and acquisition of businesses in the heavyside construction materials market. financial highlights operational highlights revenue £652.4m 2016: £454.7m +43% underlying ebit margin* 12.3% 2016: 13.1% profit before taxation £71.2m 2016: £46.8m +52% underlying ebit* £80.4m 2016: £59.6m +35% underlying basic earnings per share* 4.14p 2016: 3.49p +19% net debt £109.8m 2016: £159.3m -31% • a year of solid progress, with improved performances from all three divisions • strong organic earnings growth, supplemented by contributions from acquisitions • significant investment in mineral assets, capacity and operational improvements • t wo bolt-on acquisitions completed • planned acquisition of t armac quarry and asphalt assets announced • following full integration of 2016 hope acquisition, growth platform strengthened, with significant scale, national reach and vertical integration • further 25 per cent reduction in employee lost time injury frequency rate (l tifr) to 1.41 leinthall quarry in herefordshire 03 01 strategic report 02 03 04 breedon group is the only major quoted company offering a focused uk investment opportunity in the heavyside construction materials industry. in the past, the plant has relied on hope works’ neighbouring shale quarry for this material, but we are increasingly using pulverised fly ash (pfa) as a sustainable alternative source of waste-derived raw material, which is helping to improve our husbandry of our shale resources. we also operate 26 asphalt plants, located mainly in our quarries, which mix aggregates and bitumen to produce coated stone. c ost-effective delivery of heavyside construction materials from quarry or plant to site requires highly efficient logistics management, coupled with flexible and responsive customer service. we completed the integration of our largest-ever acquisition, concluded two bolt-on purchases and announced an important transaction with tarmac holdings limited (tarmac) that, subject to approval by the competition authorities, will see us streamline our ready-mixed concrete network in exchange for a substantial new reserve of minerals and a strategically valuable asphalt plant. this did not, however, distract us from our operational focus and we once again delivered a solid financial performance. peter tom cbe executive chairman 7 march 2018 25 01 strategic report 02 03 04 trading performance w e made good progress in 2017, with volumes and revenues comfortably ahead of the prior year. growth was led by healthy increases in residential and infrastructure development, which together account for the majority of our end-use markets. the planned acquisition of minffordd quarry from tarmac will give us another new plant, expanding our asphalt network to 28 plants nationwide. our planned acquisition of quarrying and asphalt assets from tarmac will give us an even more powerful platform for growth. further investments were made in commencing replacement of our asphalt plant at furnace quarry near inverary and installing a new wash plant at our tom’s forest quarry near aberdeen, which will enable us to fully exploit a valuable sand resource in the overburden. we also won significant work at manchester international airport and from a wide range of groundwork specialists servicing the buoyant housebuilding industry. we also saw a continuing improvement in the reporting of safety observations (formerly known as near-misses), which increased by 16 per cent year-on-year. every safety observation reported is a potential accident avoided, so we are pleased to see this continuing upward trend. 2.63 2.72 1.87 1.41 3.03 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 employee ltifr employee tifr (12-month rolling average) jan 17.47 14.28 feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec corporate social responsibility review continued 1. health & safety continued 44 breedon group annual report 2017 www.breedongroup.com safe shutdowns at breedon cement two major kiln shutdowns, two kiln pit- stops and a mill shutdown were carried out at hope cement works during 2017 involving more than 200,000 additional man-hours of work, carried out mainly by a range of engineering sub-contractors, without a single incident being recorded. we have 25 colleagues currently enrolled at derby university studying the various foundation degrees in mineral products and certificate programmes. in addition, proxy votes will be counted and the results announced after any vote on a show of hands. maximum opportunity in line with best and market practice, it is currently intended that rolling annual awards will be made. targets are set at levels which require stretching performance to be achieved for maximum payout, but without encouraging excessive risk-taking. • where it is considered appropriate to reimburse the new director for any costs he/she may have incurred as a consequence of resigning from their previous employment. for these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement present. mineral reserves and resources acquired in the normal course of business are held at historic cost on initial recognition. 2. every member who is present in person shall on a show of hands have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall on a poll have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder. • beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details. shareholder information continued 118 breedon group annual report 2017 www.breedongroup.com electronic voting shareholders can submit proxies for the 2018 agm electronically by logging on to www.signalshares.com.