we shall be building on our recent investment in echo-scan, a network of radiology and diagnostic laboratories that has provided us with an attractive entry point into the country. with its fragmented and largely unestablished healthcare services market, we see huge potential for fu- ture growth to match our successful track record in egypt. we are well posi- tioned with our strong brands and geographic position- ing to capitalise on the structural drivers that support future growth in medical diagnostic services including idh annual report 2017 14 large, rapidly-growing populations; a high prevalence of lifestyle-related medical conditions; and a growing health consciousness in our emerging markets. i am honoured to have you with us on this journey as a rapidly-growing consumer healthcare company across the middle east and africa. • there is a rising prevalence of diseases commanding high test volumes, indicating an expanding need gap compared with more developed markets. this has been achieved by: • idh’s accreditations, which underscore the high- quality and safety of its testing capabilities, are key to attracting patients. furthermore, biolab does not share purchasing, supply and lo- gistics, it, marketing or sales functions with its egyptian parent company. in paral- lel, the company’s asset-light business model notably translates into minimal borrowings while allowing for signifi- cant strategic flexibility. it is noteworthy that management has been able to negoti- ate an agreement with its main suppliers not to increase prices during 2018. idh annual report 2017 27 strategic report our business model idh operates an easily scalable busi- ness model, allowing for expansion in a capital-efficient manner and geared toward operational efficiency. b-labs (spokes) are capable of process- ing routine tests, and they effectively reduce traffic to the mega lab where warranted. the company’s iso 9001:2008 accredita- tions for both al mokhtabar and al borg passed year end accreditation reviews in 2017 and will next be renewed in 2018. college of american pathologists (cap) unlike iso accreditation, cap certification is awarded to individual labs, rather than the group’s operations as a whole. in 2017, the training centre employed one director, eight full-time specialists, three ad- ministrators, two consultants and seven part-time instruc- tors. nigeria is facing security challenges on several fronts, in- cluding re-emerging ethnic tensions and resurgent attacks by islamist militants in the northeast. within the contract segment, idh also provides lab-to-lab services for hospitals and other laboratories not able to process certain tests in house. idh signed 311 new corporate contracts with insurers last year versus 456 in 2016. revenues from walk-in clients also rose 29% year-on-year, helped by improving patient volumes. chief executive officer dr. hend el-sherbini jointly holds vot- ing rights to shares held by hena holdings ltd. with her mother, dr. moamena kamel. it is the group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with all relevant terms and conditions. for the residual 2 components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no signifi- cant risks of material misstatement within these. after initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method (“eir”), less impairment. these calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other available fair value indicators. goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at 31 october and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. idh annual re por t 2017 88 additionally, the testing and assessment of controls over new it systems has not been complete. the projected cash flows from 2018- 2022 have been based on detailed forecasts prepared by management for each cgu and a terminal value thereafter. such forecasting takes into consideration the group’s compliance with internal financial position ratio targets and, if ap- plicable external regulatory or legal requirements – for example, currency restrictions.