with cyberghost now fully integrated into the group, i am pleased to report it has performed ahead of management’s expectations both on a revenue and profit level. moran laufer chief financial officer 12 march 2018 12 kape technologies plc annual report and accounts risks background mitigating controls regulatory, legislative or self-regulatory developments regarding internet privacy matters could adversely affect the group’s ability to conduct its business. board of directors don has many years’ experience in marketing services including developing companies organically and by acquisition. prior to visualdna, ido worked as a senior associate within kpmg’s private equity deal advisory practice in london and as a senior manager within kpmg’s transaction services practice focusing on technology deals in israel and with the israeli ministry of finance. ido is a certified public accountant, having graduated magna cum laude in accounting and economics from the hebrew university of jerusalem. previously moran worked for ernst & young as a senior auditor of london stock exchange and nasdaq traded companies primarily focused on the technology sector. executive directors and the group’s auditors may be invited to attend all or part of any meetings. kape therefore places significant emphasis on ensuring that it has a strong recruitment team as well as appropriate remuneration and bonus policies which are set by reference to appropriate objectives and include share-based incentive schemes, details of which are set out in note 18 to the financial statements. the group has no material exposure to price, liquidity, or cash flow risk that would impact its objectives. a further four components have been scoped in as significant to ensure sufficient coverage was obtained across the group. ifrs 16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for all applicable leases. business combinations and goodwill acquisitions of businesses not under common control are accounted for using the acquisition method. internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which is two to three years. prior to the acquisition date, cyberghost acquired mobile concepts gmbh, a software development company based in germany, for an amount of €1.5 million.