mining at belaya gora continued to focus on processing low-grade ore stockpiles pending the completion of an ongoing project review. highland gold mining limited | annual report and accounts 2017 4 kazakhstan russia astana belaya gora mnogovershinnoye blagodatnoye kyrgyzstan klen novoshirokinskoye kekura unkurtash lyubov moscow baley hub taseevskoye sredny golgotay zif-1 tailings strategic report at a glance highland’s vision is to become the most profitable gold mining company in russia and central asia. before i chronicle such progress, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, after 15 years as a publicly quoted enterprise, some 63% of your company’s shares are in ‘free float’ and our shareholder base includes a wide range of uk, european and us institutional investors. i utilise this phrase again because there can be few better descriptions of management’s primary objective which was furthered, throughout the year under review, by effective business strategies and carefully monitored disciplines. in line with this a comprehensive survey of the hoist, headframe, crusher and main fan unit buildings was conducted. a tender was held to select a contractor to carry out an additional exploration programme at klen and work began in q1 2018. strategic report ceo’s report (continued) 1. all figures quoted as per oz of gold equivalent production without any by-product credits and refining charges. the risk register defines a responsible body or individuals who are charged with monitoring, managing and mitigating these risks. the group initiates new projects, mine extensions, etc., based on detailed investment plans and a review of management resources. colin joined highland gold’s board of directors in september 2013. john mann studied political science at harvard university with a focus on soviet history and politics. she joined the highland gold board of directors in january 2008. t erry robinson is a qualified chartered accountant and has 40 years’ international business experience. • the company anticipates total dividend payout for each financial year will be 20% of net cash flow from operating activities. we engaged ey valuation specialists where appropriate to ensure certain specific assumptions applied in the impairment model are reasonable. we have tested the quality of management forecasting by comparing cash flow forecasts for prior periods to actual outcomes. 2. basis of preparation the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss and assets and liabilities acquired in business combination that have been measured at fair value. property, plant and equipment acquired through business combinations are stated at their acquisition date fair values on initial recognition. fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 29. fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. instead, the receivables will be accounted for as one instrument and measured at fair value through profit or loss with subsequent changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income each period until final settlement and presented as part of ‘revenue’. the group has neither longer-term receivables, contract assets nor debt securities which can be significantly impacted by ecl requirements. these are based on the group’s current interpretation of ifrs 15 and may be subject to change as interpretations evolve further. the cash flows are based on estimates of expected future production, metal selling prices, operating costs, capital expenditure and post-tax discount rates. please refer to note 17 for further details on the significant judgements and estimations made when preparing impairment tests of non-current assets, including post-tax discount rates. transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. there are no restrictions imposed by non-controlling interest on our ability to use assets and settle liabilities of novo.