one way or another we connect everyone on the island and increasingly our business is about connecting everyday things in a more connected world. increasingly, we see demand in growing ‘internet of things’ sectors such as logistics, transport, security monitoring, utilities and energy. mobile virtual network enabler (mvne) with extensive roaming partnerships across mainland europe, the usa, and the uk, we provide extremely competitive solutions for every type of business enterprise looking to offer a specialist mobile communications service of its own. 16,533 15,565 14,122 2017 2016 2015 04 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 i am pleased to present a solid set of full year results for 2017, with stable trading performance and strong underlying cash flow which continues to support our progressive dividend policy. kevin walsh non-executive chairman 05 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 overview strategic report governance report financial statements other 11.4 10.9 10.4 9.9 2017 2016 2015 2014 26% 23% 10% 3% 2017 2016 2015 2014 total dividend 11.4p total shareholder return 26% we expect that our core domestic business (fixed line, broadband and data) and mobile revenue streams will be supported by continued improvement in our on-island network infrastructure, resulting in overall stable revenues in our core lines of business. kevin walsh non-executive chairman 06 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 investment case strong core market position manx telecom is the leading communications solutions provider on the island with market share positions in mobile, broadband, data centre and fixed-line segments. best known for its financial services industry, the island has successfully diversified across sectors including e-business, e-gaming and high-tech manufacturing. as such, the isle of man is a growing, affluent, low tax economy keen to embrace new technology. this has been underpinned by investment in a world-class 4g network providing 99% population coverage on the island. this strategy was supplemented in 2016 by the creation of vannin ventures, a 100%-owned business incubator targeting new innovative technologies and opportunities. this supports our progressive dividend policy, which has been maintained since admission at an annual increase of c.5%. 5 4 08 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 in this section, we illustrate some of our highlights and announcements over 2017. year in review milestones 31 march flagship manx telecom parish walk sponsorship extended to 2020 we were delighted to extend our sponsorship of the island’s leading mass participation sporting event to 2020, with the parish walk being heralded by ceo gary lamb as “a shining example of the island’s tremendous community spirit and enthusiasm for sport”. potential speeds after fibre investment 1gbps 1 august another first; inclusive uk and eu roaming for mobile customers we were the first isle of man operator to offer our pay monthly customers inclusive roaming within the uk and eu. mobile or fixed, we are well placed to meet the island’s growing demand for high-speed and low-latency data services. recently we embraced the latest ‘software defined network’ architecture, migrating our entire fixed line customer base onto a software-based cloud computing platform. global solutions ‘smart sim’ mobile services marketed in the uk and internationally through strategic partners. high service standards – monthly transactional nps (net promoter score) results benchmark positively against uk operators. read the case study on page 20 read the case study on page 22 read the case study on page 24 15 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 overview strategic report governance report financial statements other 52% 40% 30% 2017 2016 2015 £3.2 2017 2016 nil 3.9 4.3 2017 2016 kpis challenges 2018 priorities vdsl uptake 52% premises passed by fttp by end 2018 4,600 programme costs – capex £3.2m goshawk addressable uk market 2.5m total programme costs – opex £8.2m roaming agreements 400+ fibre investment – fibre is our most strategic physical asset and we will continue to deploy all key broadband technologies (vdsl/fttc/ fttp), prioritising areas that offer lower cost to connect and a higher propensity of users to adopt higher speed solutions. continued transformation – we are midway through a 2 year programme to improve competitiveness and our customer experience. growth by acquisition – we proactively monitor all the segments within which we compete to look for companies that would offer scale, market share, cost and operational synergies or fast-track capability development as part of the larger manx telecom group. our core domestic business performance in fixed line, broadband, data and mobile remained solid during the year. cash performance in the year has been exceptionally strong as a result of tight control of our working capital and capital expenditure, and continues to support our progressive dividend policy for 2017. underlying ebitda declined slightly to £27.1m (2016: 27.7m). these price reductions were supported by improved cost control and have proved popular with our customer base. in august 2016, we launched vannin ventures, a standalone business established to support the company’s long-term growth strategy. goshawk is a uk-based company which develops and exploits technology-based solutions that enhance audio quality. indeed, wholesale roaming rates made it especially challenging to deliver the value we knew our customers craved, alongside an acceptable margin. headcount was reduced in q1 2017 by nearly 15% following a carefully considered voluntary redundancy programme that will deliver net cost savings from 2018 onwards. our ageing vehicle fleet was refreshed, changing from an outright ownership model to a new leased agreement, also delivering more fuel-efficiency and fewer environmental emissions. working spaces have also been re-designed to be more modern, open and productive – the first being completed in december 2017 for our customer experience team. most importantly, we have defined new target operating models for key functions that define a manx telecom that is more agile, creative and effective in its ability to rapidly take advantage of market opportunities and deliver a superior customer experience. in may 2017, vannin ventures – the growth incubating wholly-owned subsidiary of manx telecom – acquired a 67% shareholding in a new isle of man company, goshawk communications limited, that will provide pioneering technology to help mobile phone users with hearing loss. in the uk alone, nine million people experience varying degrees of hearing loss, affecting their ability to use voice services on mobile phones. as a hearing impaired person myself, i am passionate about the benefits this technology can bring. global solutions performed well, with full year revenue of £16.5m (2016: £15.6m), a 6.2% increase year-on-year, driven by continuous growth in our strongest signal mobile solution (branded chameleon), m2m, and international traveller propositions. energy costs were down 9% during 2017 due to a full year of customer consolidation in our data centre business. mobile handset costs were up 16% due to successful christmas promotions and the introduction of smartroam, supporting an increase in post-paid contract subscribers and upsell of customers on legacy tariffs to the new smartroam tariffs. this charge does not form part of the underlying results and has no impact on cash. this was partly as a result of the reduction in costs for part of the year following voluntary redundancy under the transformation programme.” revenue fixed line, broadband, data 40.1% mobile 25.3% global solutions 21.1% other services 7.5% data centre 6.0% 28 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial review continued cash flow underlying cash flow from operations increased by 17.3% to £26.5m (2016: £22.6m) due to tight control of working capital. the group’s definition of these terms may not be comparable with similarly titled performance measures and disclosures by other entities. such non-gaap measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent gaap measure. in particular, a number of cloud based technologies have been implemented during the year, each with their own security arrangements. we provide the regulator with annual separated accounts based on a bottom-up cost model that was developed with the assistance of an independent consultant and ensures that they have a proper assessment of our portfolio pricing and margins. our principal competitors have continued to focus their efforts on gaining market share through pricing. legislative change stable current corporate tax arrangements make the isle of man an attractive economy in which to invest and do business. jeffrey hume joined the business in 2013 as an independent non-executive director and chairman of its audit committee. gary is a qualified accountant (acma, cgma) who has gained extensive business experience over the past 25 years in numerous senior roles. deeds of indemnity have been granted to each director, but do not cover criminal acts. a director is not required to hold any shares in the company by way of qualification. the notice of annual general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies. key elements of a non-executive director’s role are: strategy – to constructively challenge and develop proposals. all directors have access to services of the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring board procedures are complied with. we considered key accounting matters in relation to the group’s financial statements and disclosures. these procedures include the preparation of management accounts, forecast variance analyses, and other ad hoc reports. as in prior years, bonuses were eligible to be earned based on performance against challenging underlying ebitda, free cash flow and revenue growth targets. in relation to the policy for salary increases, there is no prescribed maximum annual increase. awards are released subject to continued employment and satisfaction of challenging performance conditions measured over three years. a director’s service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct. as a result, the metrics and weightings we are to operate in relation to the 2018 annual bonus for executive directors are as follows: metric weighting underlying ebitda 20% underlying cash flow 20% revenue 20% customer experience 20% people engagement 20% in all cases a threshold level of financial performance (based on predetermined levels of ebitda and cash flow) must be achieved before bonuses are eligible to become payable. the 2018 targets are structured using sliding scales that have been set around our internal plans. the customer and people targets are based on our net promoter scores (which include data collated externally). however, it is our intention that details of the target ranges, and achievement against them, will be set out in next year’s report. one third of a bonus earned must be invested in shares and held for two years. one third of the bonus earned must be invested in shares and held for two years. there were no such events during 2017. both cash and share elements of the bonus are subject to clawback. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. processing error: manx telecom has multiple systems which are used to collect usage data and record revenue. based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information. in assessing control, the group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. fair value fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method. depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment from the date they are brought into use, in equal instalments over their estimated useful lives. assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss. any such write-down is charged to operating profit as an impairment loss and separately disclosed if material. they are stated at the lower of cost, including appropriate overheads, and estimated net realisable value. a defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme that sets the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. the grant date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity. for share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant date fair value of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions, and there is no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes. the arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on its relative fair value. their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements. as a result of this ongoing work, it is possible that there may be some changes to the anticipated impact summarised below. prescriptive guidance has been provided by ifrs 15 for specific scenarios and extensive disclosures are required. the group’s detailed assessment and testing over its new processes for collating the data required to account for revenue under ifrs 15 is ongoing, therefore it is possible that there could be differing impacts than summarised below. ifrs 16 replaces existing leases guidance, including ias 17 and the related interpretations when it becomes effective. as at 31 december 2017, the group’s future minimum lease payments under non- cancellable operating leases amounted to £3,146,000 (2016: £3,247,000) on an undiscounted basis (see note 19). 78 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 notes continued 1 accounting policies continued 1.15 government grants government grants are recognised where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions complied with. some of the group’s assets and liabilities are measured at fair value for financial reporting purposes. transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. consequently, the analysis shown above does not extend to any segmentation of profits and net assets. other includes kit sales, directory revenues, managed service rental charges and revenue from the provision of telecommunications software. these balances are due from large international operators and therefore related recoverability risk is considered to be low. transaction costs of £1,475,000 were capitalised in 2014 and will be amortised over the loan period (as amended from 30 june 2015). on 1 december 2017, 43,301 new ordinary shares were issued and transferred to the manx telecom plc share incentive plan trust for nil consideration. this analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remained constant, and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps). 98 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 notes continued 20 related parties – group and company continued other related party transactions – company related party relationship receivables outstanding 2017 £’000 payables outstanding 2017 £’000 receivables outstanding 2016 £’000 payables outstanding 2016 £’000 trafford shareholder debtco limited direct subsidiary 49,323 100 36,747 100 manx telecom trading limited (formerly manx telecom limited) indirect subsidiary 46,488 7,437 57,887 7,437 manx telecom holdings limited indirect subsidiary – 2,000 – 2,000 95,811 9,537 94,634 9,537 intercompany balances arise through the capital management of the group, as capital and financial resources are raised and deployed through the group as required. no provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties. an equivalent share option scheme for non-isle of man resident employees was established in 2015; see below. an equivalent cash settled share option scheme for non-isle of man resident employees was established in 2015, see below. the summarised financial information below consolidates goshawk communications (uk) limited and represents amounts before other intragroup eliminations. other than as noted above, there are no events after the balance sheet date which require disclosure. the group’s definition of these terms may not be comparable with similarly titled performance measures and disclosures by other entities. such non-gaap measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent gaap measure. in 2017 , the group made an unrealised gain on interest rate swap fair value movements of £777 ,000 (2016: £1,238,000 loss).