understanding regulation we work closely with regulators to ensure they understand the impact of technical changes and specific local requirements. this will allow playtech licensees to create further loyalty through the use of gamification, in-game communication, social and analysis tools. in september, gala bingo won this year’s autumn playtech award for the success of its innovative cashpot games suite with enhanced jackpot functionality. operationally 2017 was another year of significant progress for playtech as the company continues to execute on its industry leading omni-channel solution. read more on page 58 how we create value business model and strategy our valuable assets what we do 9 acquisitions invest in new technology shareholder value organic growth partner with leading brands in each geography playtech supply software and services to licensees globally revenue share model 9 9 9 9 business management & monitoring our financial strength playtech has a proven track record of driving shareholder returns through efficient use of capital – augmenting growth through investment in technology and strategic m&a. furthermore in 2017 playtech signed a strategic partnership with featurespace to integrate its real-time gameplay fraud detection models into the ims’ already considerable player protection tool kit. white-label and b2c the contract with news uk for sun bingo continues to see improvement in revenue although it remains challenging. these include our real time “trending now” feature, “traders trends” live disclosure per asset, “events & trade” financial calendar, “market consensus” analysts integrated portal and more. mor weizer chief executive officer 22 february 2018 playtech plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report 19 • total revenues up 14% vs 2016 on a reported basis: – 18% revenue growth at constant currency – 5% revenue growth excluding acquisitions and at constant currency • improved quality of earnings resulted in 54% group regulated revenue (2016: 48%) • adjusted ebitda up 7% on a reported basis and 11% at constant currency • revenue grew by 17% at constant currency despite significant headwinds • regulated gaming revenues 49% (2016: 42%) • integration of playtech bgt sports completed – 37% growth in retail machine footprint – landmark sportsbook clients hpybet, magic betting and post period end sas • migration to live casino in riga complete • acquisition of betbuddy consolidates responsible gaming • pipeline strong across all key geographies • momentum from 2016 continued with further improvement in kpis, 29% revenue growth to €84.9 million and 73% adjusted ebitda growth to €27.0 million • division well placed for incoming regulation with b2b operations set to benefit • b2b offering further enhanced with the acquisition of alpha capital markets in h2 • tradetech group brand launched to reflect the full b2b and b2c capabilities of the financials division financial highlights operational highlights • adjusted group ebitda margin of 40% (2016: 43%) – in line with guidance – b2b gaming margin of 49% (2016: 50%) • adjusted diluted eps up 14% on a reported basis and 8% at constant currency • gross cash at year end of €584 million (2016: €544.8 million) and €413 million when adjusted (2016: €392 million) • total dividend per share up 10% gaming division financials division confidence in our future group financial & operational highlights playtech plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report 20 gaming division play any game, on any platform, on any device, anywhere... only playtech one can deliver this gaming division omni-channel technology suite for more information see page 26 q&a with mor weizer for more information see page 24 our products for more information see page 30 our services for more information see page 34 playtech plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic report 21 gaming division = = = = 1 the online gambling market the global online gambling market continues to exhibit strong growth while continuing to evolve. the players of 2018, whether playing online, on mobile or through traditional retail channels, are looking for a seamless experience. omni-channel is a word you will come across a lot in the gambling industry as operators and content providers alike have realised that they need to provide the same level of service and style of content for customers across different channels be it land based retail or on mobile or desktop. in partnership with licensees gpas develops content to any precise requirement, flexibly and efficiently, no matter what the need. logging into the app store style layout operators can access, browse, install and manage any or all their playtech omni-channel games content on marketplace in an instant. our unique data- driven, business intelligence marketing technology, exclusive to playtech, significantly enhances licensee revenues by increasing player experience and lifetime value. bit revolves around a series of game-changing features including: the bi platform • complete operational overview enables day-to-day and high-level decisions by comparing key metrics against competitors. founded in 2011, sunfox games combines modern 3d content production technology with cuttingedge math creation, html5-rendering frameworks and excellent usability design to create a unique gaming experience. it was acquired by playtech in 2017. with more than 70 titles distributed via its proprietary remote gaming server (rgs) eyecon games are familiar across many of the major industry platforms and brands. playtech retail offers a comprehensive suite of next-generation, omni-channel software, content and systems for land-based venues with seamless player access between each channel. playtech powers more than 40,000 global gaming terminals offering a full enterprise management system for land-based venues and providing operators with complete operational control. our quality content takes full advantage of hardware performance available on high specification cabinets, giving players a fully immersive experience. our world-class financial tools include player payout approval/decline, dispute withdrawal requests, wagering calculations, procedure submittal, document review and much more. using behavioural data from a wide variety of sources to generate automated campaigns that guide your clients’ online trading journey in real time. this performance was achieved despite 2017 being an unusual year for headwinds faced, with so many combining including currency headwinds as well as issues in h2 in asia and the expected loss of marvel, certain mobenga contracts and the contract with poker stars for poker strategy. most importantly, r&d now has its own line item which serves to highlight the technology base of playtech’s b2b gaming business. it is imperative to ensure compliance with all relevant tax regulations and requirements in each jurisdiction that playtech operates. they have endorsed a fully comprehensive roadmap and been provided with frequent progress updates from the group data protection office. likelihood: medium impact: high the group adopts industry standard protections to detect any intrusion or other security breaches, together with preventative measures safeguarding against sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime. this programme aims to ensure our senior leaders are champions in driving a culture of compliance and ethical behaviour. when engaging with local policy makers, playtech shares its experience in regulated markets to promulgate best practices regarding responsible gambling and consumer protection. playtech engages constructively with local tax authorities, either directly or through trade associations and other similar bodies, as appropriate. as with ipoker, the live casino operation has very limited access to personal information, but live’s customer support personnel have been trained to identify risky player behaviour and employ a machine learning application that analyses chat for phrases that could indicate a player is at risk. as a result of the assessment, playtech has enhanced its operational procedures relating to vip & high-risk players, e-wallets and customers changing personal details online. in 2017, playtech partnered with gamcare to deliver targeted responsible gambling training across b2c operations, including customer service staff, chat moderators, product leads, vip teams and senior managers. playtech estonia also participated in a government initiative called ‘choose it’; an adult retraining programme aiming to give participants basic software developer skills. our 2018 agm is scheduled for 10.00 am on 16 may 2018 at the sefton hotel, douglas, isle of man and we look forward to seeing you there. any specific actions arising during meetings are agreed by the board and a comprehensive follow-up procedure ensures their completion. the internal audit team will also be utilised to provide assurance over corporate governance matters and for ad hoc projects, where necessary. 2 as awards previously granted were share options without performance conditions, under the regulations they are not required to be shown in this table. new standards, interpretations and amendments effective from 1 january 2018 there are no new standards, interpretations or amendments which are effective for periods beginning on or before 1 january 2018 which have a material effect on the group’s financial information, including ifrs 15: revenue from contracts with customers, and ifrs 9: financial instruments, although there may be presentational changes. note 2 – significant accounting policies continued basis of consolidation where the company has control over an investee it is classified as a subsidiary. goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the consolidated income statement. other non-financial assets are subject to annual impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. they are classified between current and non-current assets in accordance with the contractual repayment terms of each loan agreement. • material one-off items, e.g. gain on sale of investment in associates, professional services cost related to acquisitions and other exceptional projects. the group is required to test other intangibles if events of changes in circumstances indicated that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. where the group has generated a significant amount of cash, it will invest in higher earning interest deposit accounts. liquidity risk arises if the group encounters difficulty in meeting obligations which arise following profitable positions being closed by clients.