our strategic ambition to become a world-class independent e&p creator of shareholder value. ceo statement read more p6 key performance indicators read more p12 our sustainable approach read more p18 strategic report 1 business highlights 2 chairman’s statement 4 genel at a glance 6 chief executive officer’s statement 10 our business model and strategy 12 key performance indicators 14 operating review 18 our sustainable approach 22 financial review 26 risk management 28 principal risk and uncertainties 31 viability statement governance 32 chairman’s statement on corporate governance 34 board of directors 36 executive committee 37 corporate governance 42 audit committee 44 nomination committee 46 hsse committee 48 reserves committee 49 directors’ remuneration report 68 other statutory and regulatory information 71 statement of directors’ responsibilities financial statements 72 independent auditors’ report 78 financial statements and notes other information 103 report on payments to governments 104 glossary of technical terms ibc shareholder information essential reading contents  annualreport2017 1 strategic report governance financial statements other information 2015 2016 2017 148 207 $ 263 cash proceeds ($ million) 2015 2016 2017 242 161 150 2p reserves (net mmbbls) 2015 2016 2017 239 241 135 net debt ($ million) strategic report highlights highlights — — $263—million—of—cash—proceeds—received — in—2017—(2016:—$207—million),—with—strong — free—cash—flow—generation—of—$142—million — (2016:—$59—million) — — year-end—net—debt—of—$135—million,—a—44% — reduction—year-on-year—(2016:—$241—million) — — year-end—gross—debt—of—$300—million,—a—56% — reduction—year-on-year—(2016:—$675—million), — with—debt—extended—until—2022—and—interest — cost—reduced—by—40% — — — receivable—settlement—agreement—resulted — in—cash—benefit—of—$26—million—in—q4—2017 — — focused—capital—allocation—–—66%—of — capital—expenditure—was—spent—on—cash- generative—producing—assets,—and—has — been— cost— recovered— — — drilling—success—at—peshkabir,—with—gross — production—rising—to—c.15,000—bopd—at—year -end — — taq—taq—field—production—stabilised—in—h2 — 2017,—with—q4—average—of—14,035—bopd—in—line — with—q3—average—of—14,080—bopd — — in—january—2018—bina—bawi—and—miran—cprs — confirmed—c.45%—uplift—to—gross—2c—raw — gas—resources—to—14.8—tcf read more p22 outlook — — combined—net—production—from—the—tawke — and—taq—taq—pscs—during—2018—is—expected — to—be—close—to—q4—2017—levels—of—32,800 — bopd,—unchanged—from—previous—guidance — — genel—expects—to—continue—the—generation — of—material—free—cash—flow—in—2018 — — — tangible—steps—to—be—taken—to—further—de-risk — gas—resources—and—unlock—value—from—bina — bawi—and—miran,—including—the—high-value — oil— resources— — — capital—allocation—discipline—to—continue, — with—ongoing—prioritisation—of—spend—on — cash-generative—producing—assets.—capital — expenditure—guidance—unchanged—at — c.$95–140—million—net—to—genel — — opex—and—g&a—cash—cost—guidance—unchanged — at—c.$30—million—and—c.$15—million—respectively read more p7 business highlights genel energy 2 strategic report chairman’s statement clear strategy, material upside stephen whyte chairman i am pleased to welcome you to genel’s seventh annual results statement, and my first as chairman. i am now more confident than ever that, while challenges remain, there is material upside in the genel portfolio and significant opportunities ahead. genel takes pride in its operations and strives for positive community impact, and it was pleasing to see a repeat of 2016’s performance in achieving no lost-time incidents, while reducing incidents of primary containment loss to a single minor event. i would like to thank all employees across our operations for their ongoing vigilance and hard work. going through 2018 we look forward to clearly setting out the growth potential that this provides, and as such plan for active capital market engagement. we went into the year with a clear focus, and took proactive steps to deliver our key goals. chief executive officer’s statement  annualreport2017 7 strategic report governance financial statements other information prudent capital allocation is at the core of everything that we do, and we spend each dollar in a way that creates the greatest value for our shareholders. delivering on our focus i was pleased to welcome esa ikaheimonen as chief financial officer and bill higgs as chief operating officer, both of whom bring the qualities and experience to help us deliver on these goals. in the year, monthly payments totalling $263 million were received from the krg, with our ongoing focus on cost and disciplined capital allocation helping to convert this into $142 million in free cash flow, before bond interest payments. as payments are received monthly, this is currently recovered through cash receipts within approximately 90 days. below: operations at taq taq genel energy 8 strategic report chief executive officer’s statement continued bina bawi and miran remain a significant opportunity for genel, and we will work to convert that opportunity into shareholder value in 2018. below: bina bawi field facilities top: drilling operations at peshkabir below: workers at bina bawi some of these near-term cash-generative opportunities can be found within the genel portfolio. bina bawi and miran remain a significant opportunity for genel, and we will work to convert that opportunity into shareholder value in 2018. genel will also make appropriate expenditure on our african exploration assets, which offer longer-term opportunities. there were successful elections held in 2017, and increasing international investment is opening up opportunities. it is worth noting eni’s recent acquisition of the licence block adjacent to sidi moussa. read more p15 maintain a strong balance sheet disciplined capital allocation, maximising financial flexibility to execute our strategy. read more p22 genel’s strategic ambition is to become a world-class independent e&p creator of shareholder value. technical adjustments also saw a material increase in high-value oil resources at bina bawi. we are also actively looking to leverage our capabilities outside kri for accelerated profitable growth. 2017 activity activity on the tawke psc was focused on peshkabir, with gross production rising to 15,000 bopd by the end of the year, with more to come in 2018. tawke production remained solid, and activity at taq taq mitigated field declines, resulting in december production being at a higher level than that in june. in 2017 psc amendments and gas lifting agreements (‘gla’s) were finalised for both fields. we re-invest our cash smartly and allocate capital towards those areas with the highest returns, making sure that we are suitably financed through a mix of diverse funding options and portfolio management, providing a base from which to accelerate the growth of our portfolio. coupled with another year of consistent payments this helped generate material free cash flow, and the successful refinancing in december 2017 solidified a significant improvement in the balance sheet, reducing year-end net debt by 44% to $135 million. consistent and predictable payments throughout the year allowed for a proactive drilling programme to be carried out across genel assets. as such, maximising the cash flow from these assets is a key priority for genel.  annualreport2017 17 strategic report governance financial statements other information somaliland kurdistan region of iraq left: seismic acquisition, somaliland below: operations in the kri later in the year, genel expects to undertake an extended well test of bina bawi-4, which will provide valuable data on well deliverability and gas composition. genel’s prior commitment to drill one well on the sidi moussa licence (genel 60% working interest, operator), offshore morocco, has been replaced by an obligation to carry out a 3d seismic campaign across the acreage, significantly reducing anticipated expenditure. working with the sulaimaniyah educational department, a team from genel led 100 students to hawari shar public park. the company also works with contractors in order that they share genel’s high standards. the majority of energy and fuel data collected has been based on actual, measured consumption. education is a key priority, and genel works to maximise opportunities for people of all ages. as part of our commitment to ensure that all children have every necessity required for school, the 108 boys and 114 girls were provided with brand new clothes. genel then rolled out this support for local children to those in the proximity of miran and bina bawi. top: quarto school below: skills training, near taq taq genel energy 22 strategic report chief financial officer’s review strong financial performance esa ikaheimonen chief financial officer in 2017, genel’s strong free cash flow generation, the rsa, and the successful reduction and extension of the company’s debt has built a robust and simplified balance sheet. the rsa formalised enhanced cash flow generation from tawke psc production into enduring contractual terms.  annualreport2017 25 strategic report governance financial statements other information august, and generated incremental revenue of $48 million. the company holds surplus cash in treasury bills or on time deposits with a number of major financial institutions. opportunities: — successful exploration and appraisal activity increases the company reserves — good reservoir management increases recoverable volumes — progress on miran and bina bawi unlocks resource value threats: — poor reservoir performance — capital constraints in non-payment scenario impact field development. opportunities: — ongoing payments under the rsa lead to increased cash receipts and increased liquidity threats: — failure of krg to make payments for export sales (as above) — a deterioration in the oil price mitigating actions: — refinancing in 2017 provided a solid basis for genel’s capital structure — ongoing focus on reducing our g&a costs — prudent capital expenditure hsse committee risk: local communities pars kutay, head of government affairs read more p18 approach: supporting and sustaining the communities in which we operate is fundamental to genel’s success. opportunities: — continued strong performance enhances company reputation threats: — failure of safety procedures leads to injuries and/or fatalities, adverse environmental impact, and material reputational damage mitigating actions: — contractor assurance management plans developed — regular hse site visits principal risks and uncertainties continued key increased unchanged decreased  annualreport2017 31 strategic report governance financial statements other information viability statement in accordance with provision c.2.2. further details can be found in our 2017 annual report on remuneration on pages 52 to 59. in accordance with the company’s commitment to comply with the uk corporate governance code the board undertook a formal and rigorous external evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and each individual director led by spencer stuart. he also spent six years with uk independent clyde petroleum, as exploration leader and then commercial director. previous relevant experience: between february 2016 and march 2017 mehmet was appointed as a non-executive director of saudi crown holding. current external appointments: tim is a non-executive director at petro matad, rockhopper exploration, and point resources. before that, he was at hill samuel, including two years on secondment to macquarie bank in sydney, australia. turkcell’s shares trade on the istanbul (imkb) and new york stock exchanges (nyse). esa currently serves as a non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee at vantage drilling. further information on our business model can be found on page 11. we operate to a high level of governance within a culture that values ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and respect for others. all issues raised via this route are investigated and reported to the audit committee. 5. ümit tolga bilgin was not elected as a director at the company’s agm on 6 june 2017. during 2017, tony hayward, simon lockett, nathaniel rothschild and chakib sbiti stepped down as directors. ümit tolga bilgin was put forward for election as a director at the company’s 2017 agm but did not receive the required 50% majority of votes in favour of his election and accordingly was not appointed as a director. the directors receive board papers and other relevant information in a timely manner ahead of meetings. it focuses its assessment on those risks that could impact our business model, solvency, liquidity or future performance. we also liaise with them on an ad-hoc basis as and when questions arise. several such meetings took place during the year and we welcome an open dialogue with our investors. during 2018, as the company’s strategy and business plan evolves we intend to increase our interaction with shareholders through proactive engagement. 4. chakib sbiti was unable to attend the audit committee meeting in march 2017, he retired as a director on 6 june 2017. spencer stuart were also appointed to provide an external board evaluation during the year. genel’s hsse policy reflects international best practice including but not limited to the ifc performance standards and icmm sustainable development framework. reserves committee chairman member meetings in 2017 tim bushell stephen whyte 1 scheduled 1 ad-hoc ensuring a robust reserves and resources process  annualreport2017 49 strategic report governance financial statements other information on behalf of the remuneration committee, i am pleased to present genel’s directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 december 2017. this is my first report as remuneration committee chairman and my thanks go to my predecessor, chakib sbiti. however, progress on the gas business in total was slower than we had targeted. long-term value creation through developing our oil assets, recovering monies owed for past sales and establishing the gas business. no member of the committee nor any party from whom advice was sought participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration. 4. ümit tolga bilgin was not elected as a director at the company’s agm on 6 june 2017. the upstream glas condition precedents (cps) have been accomplished as the competent persons report (cpr) by rps and field development plan (fdp) by baker hughes for miran and bina bawi were both completed on time as required. the regulations require that we report distributions received by shareholders through dividends and share buy-backs. bonus performance measures specific targets percentage safety and environment — maintain existing zero performance rate on lti’s and no serious incident track record — develop a leading indicator system that tests the robustness of controls we implement to mitigate the most significant risks in our business — continue to embed hse culture 15% operational — manage the company net working interest production close to guidance — achieve appropriate incremental gross production from each $1million gross drilling capex investment programme in 2018 20% financial — manage company to a cash flow positive position after interest payment — maintain strong capital discipline and deliver 2018 programme within approved capex budget 30% bina bawi and miran — progress on value creation of bina bawi and miran 20% strategy execution — make material progress into executing the strategy 15% performance share plan psp awards are granted in the form of nil-cost conditional share award over shares in the company with the number of awards granted normally determined by reference to a percentage of base salary. the thresholds targets have been reviewed and updated after consideration of financial developments in 2017. the threshold target is set in line with genel’s cost of capital to ensure that this element vests only when shareholders make a return. no less than half of an award will be based on share price measures. benefits will normally be limited to those outlined in the remuneration policy table above. however, the committee recognises that, as an independent oil and gas company, it is competing with global firms for its talent. where possible, the forfeited awards will normally be bought out on an estimated like-for-like basis. this is also the policy for new recruits termination payment — it is the company’s policy for new service contracts that it may terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice (‘pilon’) equivalent to (i) 12 months’ base salary and (ii) the executive director’s annual benefit allowance — upon termination by the company, an executive director has a duty to mitigate, and use reasonable endeavours to secure alternative employment as soon as reasonably practicable. they do not have service contracts with either the company or any of its subsidiaries. minor changes the committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment. no interim dividend was paid and the directors are not recommending a final dividend for the period ended 31 december 2017. subsequent events there have been no subsequent events since 31 december 2017. share capital as at 21 march 2018, the company had allotted and fully paid up share capital of 280,248,198 ordinary shares of 10 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of £28,024,819.80. as of 24 february 2016 the company no longer has any suspended voting ordinary shares in issue. no person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. applications for employment by disabled persons will always be considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities. should any employee become disabled, every practical effort is made to provide continued employment. our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identified two financially significant components comprising a high proportion of total group assets, which required an audit of their complete financial information. change in level of risk: decreased this year due to positive developments on miran and bina bawi assets. for the miran and bina bawi assets we reviewed management’s assessment of impairment indicators. discount rate is assessed by the company using various inputs from market data, external advisers and internal calculations. key inputs to the assessment of amortised cost were: oil price, production forecast and mechanism for payment. in determining fair value for acquisitions, the company utilises valuation methodologies including discounted cash flow analysis. profit oil revenue is always reported net of any capacity building payments that will become due. capacity building payments due on tawke profit oil receipts were waived from august 2017 onwards as part of the rsa. costs of activity that do not identify oil and gas reserves or are expensed.  annualreport2017 87 strategic report governance financial statements other information 1. summary of significant accounting policies continued development expenditure is accounted for in accordance with ias 16–property, plant and equipment. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. the company assets’ recoverable amount is determined by fair value less costs of disposal. all impairment losses are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income. 2. segmental information the company has three reportable business segments: oil, miran/bina bawi (‘mbb’) and exploration (‘expl.’).  annualreport2017 95 strategic report governance financial statements other information 9. property, plant and equipment continued the sensitivities below provide an indicative impact on net asset value of a change in long term brent, discount rate or production and reserves, assuming no change to any other inputs. sensitivities the tawke rsa intangible asset was recognised at the estimated fair value of its cost, which is sensitive to oil price, discount rate and production profile: $m tawke rsa intangible asset 425.1 long term brent +/- $5/bbl +/– 10 discount rate +/- 2.5% +/– 28 production and reserves +/- 10% +/– 36 genel energy 96 financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10. trade and other receivables continued ageing of trade receivables under the tawke and taq taq pscs, payment for entitlement is due within 30 days. contingent consideration includes a balance of $60.5 million (2016: $82.7 million) recognised at its discounted fair value, which has been re-estimated in the year resulting in a reduction that has been deducted from the book value of miran/bina bawi intangible assets. cash is deposited in us treasury bills or term deposits with banks that are assessed as appropriate based on, among other things, sovereign risk, cds pricing and credit rating. between the 22 september 2015 and 13 february 2016 27,339,017 voting ordinary shares were transferred from affiliated shareholders to third parties. drill rigs are leased on a day-rate basis for the purpose of drilling exploration or development wells. 7. registered office is next level i¸ s merkezi, eski¸ sehir yolu, dumlupınar bulvarı, no:3a-101, sö˘ gütözü, ankara, 06500, turkey. 11. registered office is 3rd floor, geneva place, waterfront drive, po box 3175, road town, tortola, bvi. royalties have been calculated on the same barrels of oil equivalent basis as production entitlements. materiality threshold total payments below £86,000 made to a government are excluded from this report as permitted under the regulations. report on payments to governments for the year 2017 genel energy 104 other information ‘agm’ annual general meeting ‘companies act 2006’ companies act 2006, as amended ‘company’ genel energy plc ‘cpr’ competent person’s report ‘elysion’ elysion energy holding b.v. ‘focus investments’ focus investments limited ‘frc’ uk financial reporting council ‘fsma’ the financial services and markets act 2000 of the uk, as amended ‘ftse’ ftse international limited ‘ghg’ greenhouse gases ‘gla’ gas lifting agreement ‘group’ the genel energy group of companies ‘hse’ health, safety and environment ‘icmm sustainable development framework’ the sustainable development framework set out by the international council on mining and metals ‘idp’ internally displaced person ‘ifc performance standard’ the performance standards set out by the international finance corporation ‘ioc’ international oil company ‘jersey companies law’ companies (jersey) law 1991 (as amended) ‘krg’ the kurdistan regional government ‘kri’ the kurdistan region of iraq ‘listing rules’ the listing rules of the uk listing authority ‘lopc’ loss of primary containment ‘lti’ lost time incident ‘ltif’ lost time incident frequency: the number of lost time incidents per million work hours ‘ngo’ non-governmental organisation ‘noc’ northern oil company ‘ordinary shares’ the voting ordinary shares and/or the suspended voting ordinary shares as the context requires ‘prm’ petroleum resources management n.v. ‘psc’ production sharing contract ‘psp’ performance share plan ‘pwc’ pricewaterhousecoopers llp ‘rsa’ receivable settlement agreement ‘rsp’ restricted share plan ‘somo’ state oil marketing organisation ‘sop’ share option plan ‘standard listing’ a standard listing under chapter 14 of the listing rules ‘tsr’ total shareholder return ‘ttopco’ taq taq operating company limited ‘ukla’ uk listing authority certain resources and reserves terms ‘1p’ proved reserves ‘2p’ proved plus probable reserves ‘3p’ proved plus probable plus possible reserves ‘2c’ contingent resources units of measurement ‘bbl’ barrel ‘bcma’ billion cubic metres per annum ‘bboe’ billion barrel oil equivalent ‘bopd’ barrels of oil per day ‘boepd’ barrels of oil equivalent per day ‘km’ kilometres ‘mcf’ thousand cubic feet ‘mmbbls’ millions of barrels ‘mmboe’ million barrels of oil equivalent ‘tcf’ trillion cubic feet ‘tco 2 e’ tonnes of co 2 equivalent glossary of technical terms shareholder information sharegift if you hold a small number of shares and find it uneconomical to sell them, you may wish to donate your shares to charity free of charge through sharegift. sharegift collects donations of unwanted shares, sells them and donates the proceeds to uk charities.