where we operate our assets are located in the giant potential underexplored regions offshore namibia, morocco and brazil. with a strong funding position and no remaining commitments across its operated portfolio chariot initiated a three well drilling campaign in q1 2018. whilst the drilling results of the rabat deep 1 well were disappointing, we look forward to additional drilling in the year ahead, where chariot’s high impact portfolio will be tested in the knowledge that, with its wider focus, we have exposure to additional drilling opportunities across a variety of basins and play types. access • secure large acreage positions in new and emerging basins • take operated positions in the early phases to maintain control over destiny • build a diversity of basins and plays • retain a broad portfolio and risk profile de-risk • position the portfolio as a fast follower • apply appropriate risk reduction technologies • levered partnering at investment phases • maintain portfolio diversity and management • maintain capital discipline drill • build a drill-ready inventory: 3 drill-ready prospects in morocco, 2 in namibia, 1 in brazil • accelerate the drilling programme: rabat deep 1 q1 2018; prospect s h2 2018; kenitra-1* h1 2019 • r etur n transf or mational shareholder value by the early monetisation of discoveries read more page 24 an experienced team chariot’s in-house technical team identifies and accesses early stage, giant potential exploration opportunities in new and emerging basins. read more page 14 a strong balance sheet in adhering to strict capital discipline throughout the business chariot retains a strong balance sheet with two fully funded wells in 2018, cash exceeding its commitments and no debt. this is further supported by our external advisors with whom we retain strong relationships and regular reviews. managing risks we carry out in-depth technical reviews in accordance with our financial position and portfolio direction at quarterly meetings, and our committees meet regularly to support the delivery of best practice corporate standards in everything we do. we carry out in-depth technical reviews in accordance with our financial position and portfolio direction at quarterly meetings, and our committees meet regularly to support the delivery of best practice corporate standards in everything we do. this is further supported by our external advisors with whom we retain strong relationships and regular reviews. with a recently stabilised oil price and the reduced cost price environment encouraging more seismic activity, we see signs of a return to exploration from the industry, and with increasing demand for these services, will come increasing prices. management believes that this preparatory work will avoid unnecessary delays, strengthen its position in partnering negotiations and ensure it capitalises on the current low-cost oil services environment. ” strategic report governance financial statements 13 chariot oil & gas limited | annual report and accounts 2017 as well as looking to add prospectivity, the team also consistently streamlines the portfolio to identify those parts that, despite being giant in their potential, may present higher risks. in march 2018 this balance sheet was further bolstered by an equity raise of us16.5 million net, allowing funding for the drilling of prospect s in namibia and acting as a potential catalyst for future partnering discussions. in march 2018 this balance sheet was further bolstered by an equity raise of us16.5 million net, allowing funding for the drilling of prospect s in namibia and acting as a potential catalyst for future partnering discussions. partnering processes have also been initiated across the remainder of its acreage on priority drilling targets. a single vertical well located at prospect 1 can penetrate the tp-1, tp-3 and kp-3 stacked targets which have a summed on-licence gross mean prospective resource of 911mmbbls read more page 18 read more page 19 read more page 21 18 chariot oil & gas limited | annual report and accounts 2017 namibia namibia – first mover advantage in the walvis basin licence interest portfolio licence overview • rig secured and drilling funded for prospect s, anticipated q4 2018 • partnering processes ongoing • drilling of an optional second well dependent on the outcome of prospect s well and ongoing partnering processes • further future potential upside of 2.2bnbbls in other prospects • chariot 65% (operator) • azinam 20% (carried interest) • namcor 10% (carried interest) • ignitus 5% (carried interest) ongoing commitments: none 2d: 3d: drill ready: central blocks pel-71 (65%) 2020 1h 1h 1h 2h 2h 2019 2018 central blocks pel-71 (65%) no remaining commitments well partnering chariot was one of the first oil and gas explorers to secure licence areas in deep-water offshore namibia. as a result chariot holds first-mover advantage with its in-depth knowledge of the namibian geology and a significant acreage position totalling approximately 16,800km² within the walvis basin, adjacent to third-party wells which have proven mature source rock and excellent quality reservoirs. strategic report governance financial statements 19 chariot oil & gas limited | annual report and accounts 2017 morocco morocco – three licences in the offshore northern region licence interest portfolio licence overview • drilled rabat deep 1 following farm out completion to eni • no hydrocarbon accumulation encountered but thick top seal and tight, fractured carbonates penetrated • electric log and side-wall cores being analysed to understand implications on the surrounding area • chariot 10% • eni 40% (operator) • woodside 25% • onhym 25% (carried interest) ongoing commitments: none 2d: 3d: first exploration well drilled: rabat deep 2020 1h 1h 1h 2h 2h 2019 2018 well result evaluation drill rabat deep 1 rabat deep: (10%) zero cost carried well lkp-1a 350mmbbls*** drilling** kenitra-1 464mmbbls**** drilling* mohammedia & kenitra: (75%) no remaining commitments well partnering well partnering in morocco, the company holds acreage across three permit areas: rabat deep, mohammedia and kenitra, which are situated up to 50km offshore in northern morocco and cover a combined area of approximately 12,800km2. • chariot 75% (operator) • onhym 25% (carried interest) ongoing commitments: none 2d: 3d: drill ready: mohammedia & kenitra • acquired and processed approximately 1,000km2 3d and 2,250km 2d seismic data • interpretation ongoing with information from the rabat deep 1 well to be integrated • drilling preparations underway for kenitra-1 and lkp-1a lower cretaceous priority targets • updated partnering process anticipated to commence in mid-2018 rabat deep offshore kenitra offshore mohammedia offshore * subject to partnering. the on-licence gross mean prospective resource of individual targets range up to 366mmbbls, and a single vertical well located at prospect 1 can penetrate the tp-1, tp-3 and kp-3 stacked targets which have a summed on-licence gross mean prospective resource of 911mmbbls. the group closely monitors its cash position and each month produces updated cash flow forecasts to help it determine whether it has sufficient financial resources to fund its short and medium term operations. the group has so far been successful with this strategy by introducing strong industry partners to its licences, including woodside and eni. given this, the group works closely with the relevant ministries to ensure that all relevant environmental impact studies are undertaken in advance of any proposed seismic or other offshore operations that are undertaken and that best in class industry environmental standards and practices are adopted by the group in all of its operations. the group is currently engaging with third party contractors for readiness planning and potential execution concerning i) any potential pollution incident and ii) emergency response planning related to the group’s upcoming drilling programme. procedures are in place to ensure that any form of bribery or improper behaviour is prevented from being conducted on chariot’s behalf by joint venture partners, contractors and suppliers. in pursuit of these objectives, chariot will use recognised standards and models as benchmarks for its management systems. prior to any seismic acquisition programmes and in preparation for the drilling of any exploratory wells, chariot will employ environmental consultants to carry out area specific environmental impact assessments (“eias”) which are approved by the relevant ministries. these observers compile marine mammal and bird count statistics which will assist in the preparation of future eias. he has typically served as the operational catalyst for integrating technical management, financing and commercial alignment in bringing successful projects to first production. prior to being promoted in may 2015 julian was chariot’s group financial controller for three years. after graduating with an msc from imperial college he joined perenco where he held a wide variety of technical and management positions focused largely on the african atlantic margin and andean foreland basins prior to becoming country manager in brazil. he also oversees the new venture exploration activity, which has so far successfully integrated brazilian and additional moroccan acreage. y ear appointed 2012 sector experience bp , triton, hunt oil, perenco experience larry has worked across a broad spectrum of exploratory and business development roles worldwide, in senior leadership roles with perenco sa, hunt oil, triton energy and bp . y ear appointed 2008 sector experience petra diamonds pella resources experience he has worked in the sector for over 25 years and has been influential in the founding, financing and growth of a number of companies, including petra diamonds. adonis founded petra in 1997 and it became the first diamond company to float on aim. 1 4 4 2 3 david brecknock group drilling manager biography david is a chartered petroleum engineer, fellow of the energy institute, has a masters in petroleum engineering from heriot-watt university and diploma in business administration from warwick business school. he started his career as field engineer with the deutsche schachtbau-und tiefbohrgesellschaft mbh (dstmbh) in lingen, germany. strategic report governance financial statements 27 chariot oil & gas limited | annual report and accounts 2017 share options the group operates a share option scheme pursuant to which directors and senior executives may be granted options to acquire ordinary shares in the company at a fixed option exercise price. the company has developed a website containing investor information to improve communication with individual investors and other interested parties. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. we also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. an overview of the scope of our audit our group audit scope focused on the group’s principal operating locations being chariot oil & gas limited (parent company) registered in guernsey, enigma oil & gas exploration (pty) limited registered in namibia and chariot brasil petroleo e gas ltda registered in brazil which are subject to a full scope audit. deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. the cumulative expense is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition. basis of consolidation where the company has control over an investee, it is classified as a subsidiary. the group conducts its exploration, development and production activities jointly with other companies in this way. potentially dilutive share awards are detailed in note 20, however these do not have any dilutive impact as the group reported a loss for the year, consequently a separate diluted loss per share has not been presented. the group does not undertake any form of speculation on long term interest rates or currency movements, therefore it manages market risk by maintaining a short term investment horizon and placing funds on deposit to optimise short term yields where possible but, moreover, to ensure that it always has sufficient cash resources to meet payables and other working capital requirements when necessary. standalone share awards are one-off awards to non-executive directors which will vest in equal instalments over a three year period and will lapse if not exercised within a fixed period on stepping down from the board. 50 chariot oil & gas limited | annual report and accounts 2017 advisors registered office po box 282 regency court glategny esplanade st peter port guernsey gy1 1ww channel islands registration number 47532 nominated advisor & joint broker finncap limited 60 new broad street london ec2m 1jj united kingdom bankers barclays bank plc. po box 41 le marchant house le truchot st peter port guernsey gy1 3be channel islands auditors bdo llp 55 baker street london w1u 7eu united kingdom financial public relations advisor celicourt communications limited adam house 7-10 adam street london wc2n 6aa united kingdom legal advisors as to british law memery crystal llp 44 southampton buildings london wc2a 1ap united kingdom as to namibian law lorentz angula inc. windhoek 3rd floor la chambers ausspann plaza windhoek namibia as to guernsey law babbé po box 69 18-20 smith street st peter port guernsey gy1 4bl channel islands as to moroccan law gide loyrette nouel tour crystal 1 boulevard sidi mohammed ben abdellah quartier casablanca marina casablanca 20030 morocco as to brazilian law schmidt valois rua da assembleia, 66 – 17º andar 20011-000 rio de janeiro rj brazil company secretary international administration group (guernsey) limited po box 282 regency court glategny esplanade st peter port guernsey gy1 1ww channel islands registrars and receiving agents link asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu united kingdom design and production www.carrkamasa.co.uk chariot oil & gas limited registered office: po box 282 regency court glategny esplanade st peter port guernsey gy1 1ww channel islands www.chariotoilandgas.com