the new us sarbanes-oxley legislation and other similar initiatives are requiring changes to corporate governance processes in a number of areas, which will further reinforce good practice. after a successful merger, it has been important for astrazeneca to continue productivity improvements throughout the company in r&d, production, sales and administration. astrazeneca relative share performance 31 december 1999 – 31 december 2002 astrazeneca major international pharmaceutical companies* *abbott labs, ahp , aventis, bms, eli lilly, gsk, jnj, merck, novartis, pfizer, pharmacia, roche, sanofi-synthelabo, schering and schering-plough source: thomson financial datastream 60 95 130 165 200 dec 99 jul 00 feb 01 sep 01 apr 02 dec 02 the long term needs of patients in both developed and developing countries can be met by research based companies such as ours. we are appealing this judgement, but meanwhile the company concerned chose to launch a generic omeprazole product in december 2002. symbicort also progressed well, recording sales of $299 million. over the last three years, we have increased our delivery of candidate drugs (cds) by 20% and on average one quality cd now enters pre- clinical development each month. i would like to thank them and the senior executive t eam for their continued contribution throughout what was undoubtedly a challenging year . in a number of countries, including some major markets, patent term extensions or supplementary protection certificates have been granted for the active ingredient. further information on crestor required by fda is planned for submission q1 2003. atacand achieves global market share, excluding japan, of 10% (9% in the us). it is also approved for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in post- menopausal women based on demonstrated advantages over tamoxifen and megestrol acetate. further launches are planned in 2003. pulmicort is a corticosteroid anti- inflammatory inhalation drug that helps prevent symptoms and improves the control of asthma. zomig nasal spray is a new formulation in an easy-to-use and convenient device to deliver fast pain relief for migraine sufferers. pipeline includes projects addressing mechanisms such as g-protein coupled receptors and novel ion channel blockers, aimed at delivering first-in-class therapies. productivity gains have also been realised through a more strategic approach to purchasing and outsourcing arrangements across the whole drug development process. we remain focused on meeting our principal r&d performance target of delivering new, medically important and commercially successful products to the market every year . line extensions symbicort inhaled steroid/fast onset, copd filed turbuhaler long-acting beta 2 -agonist single therapy for asthma 3q 2003 symbicort pmdi inhaled steroid/fast onset, asthma 4q 2003 1h 2004 long-acting beta 2 -agonist oxis turbuhaler fast onset, long-acting beta 2 -agonist copd approved oxis pmdi fast onset, long-acting beta 2 -agonist asthma 3q 2003 central nervous system (cns) nces cerovive free radical trapping agent stroke >2005 >2005 zd0947 k + channel opener overactive bladder >2005 >2005 ar-a2 5ht 1b antagonist anxiety/depression >2005 >2005 azd1134 5ht 1b antagonist anxiety/depression >2005 >2005 azd5106 nk-2 antagonist overactive bladder >2005 >2005 azd4750 chemokine receptor antagonist multiple sclerosis >2005 >2005 azd0328 alpha-7 nicotinic alzheimer’s disease >2005 >2005 receptor agonist line extensions seroquel d2/5ht2 antagonist granules 2005 2005 sustainedrelease under under evaluation evaluation mania 1q 2003 filed zomig 5ht1b/1d receptor antagonist nasal spray launched filed pain control nces azd3582 cinod acute/chronic nociceptive pain >2005 >2005 azd4282 nmda antagonist neuropathic pain >2005 >2005 azd4717 cinod acute/chronic nociceptive pain >2005 >2005 line extensions naropin sodium channel blocker spinal anaesthesia filed infection line extensions merrem carbapenem antibiotic skin and soft tissue infections 4q 2003 adp – adenoside diphosphate af – atrial fibrillation chf – congestive heart failure cinod – cox inhibiting nitric oxide donator copd – chronic obstructive pulmonary disease cpu – carboxy peptidase-u egfr-tki – epidermal growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor gerd – gastro-oesophageal reflux disease hctz – hydrochlorothiazide ibat – ilial bile acid transport k + – potassium lhrh – luteinising–hormone releasing hormone maa – marketing authorisation application (europe) mi – myocardial infarction nce – new chemical entity nda – new drug application (us) nk-2 – neurokinin 2 antagonist nmda – n-methyl-d-aspartate nsaid – non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug nsclc – non-small cell lung cancer pc – pre-clinical: candidate drug accepted for development but not yet administered to man pmdi – pressurised metered dose inhaler ppar – peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor sc – subcutaneous vegfr-tki – vascular endothelial cell growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor vte – venous thromboembolism > 2005 – not earlier than 2006 24 astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f 2002 www.astrazeneca.com operational review commercialisation and portfolio management our products are marketed primarily to physicians (both general and specialist) as well as to other healthcare professionals. astrazeneca’ s principal competitors are other international, research- based pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies which also sell branded, patent- protected, prescription pharmaceuticals. device presentations of inhalation products present manufacturing challenges and where appropriate, like other manufacturers, we keep these under review with relevant regulators. our aim is continuous improvement, learning from incidences of non-compliance to ensure that we meet both the regulatory requirements and current good practice standards. positive results have already been achieved with significant lead-time reductions on several key products supported where necessary by improved process reliability . during the marketing of a product, strict procedures must be in place to monitor , evaluate and report any potential adverse reactions. federal legislation mandates minimum discounts to us government agencies purchasing drugs for senior citizens, the poor and other populations with special needs. in addition, certain states have taken action to require further manufacturer rebates on medicaid drug utilisation and for other state pharmaceutical assistance programmes. the therapy area focus of our r&d operating model allows appropriate intellectual property strategies to be formulated and regularly updated from an early stage in product development. generally , if the us pricing environment remains unchanged, these regulations are likely to have a positive impact on pharmaceutical prices in japan. we believe good cr performance depends on achieving an appropriate balance between the economic, environmental and social priorities of sustainable development. astrazeneca’ s business is focused on delivering shareholder value by maintaining a flow of new medicines that benefit society through improved healthcare. this is consistent with our internal management reporting and we believe it provides a better understanding of underlying trends than using actual growth. a regulatory submission in europe is planned for the first quarter of 2003. central nervous system cns sales increased by 53% to $1,505 million. operating units benefit from local currency billing which has the effect of consolidating their foreign exchange exposures back into central t reasury . our returns provisions are based on actual experience over the preceding 12 months, although in certain situations, for example, a new product launch or at patent expiry , further judgement may be required. the company also has a variety of constructive relationships with trade unions across its worldwide operations including formal recognition and active dialogue where appropriate. some directors and officers were also granted options to subscribe for ordinary shares under the company’ s share option plans. 30 january 2003 kpmg audit plc chartered accountants registered auditor 8 salisbury square london ec4y 8bb the above opinion is provided in compliance with uk requirements. intangible assets, including patents acquired, are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives (generally not exceeding 20 years), in line with the benefits accruing. t o the extent that dividends remitted from overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are expected to result in additional taxes, appropriate amounts have been provided. the group has a standby letter of credit covering these financial liabilities which is collateralised by high grade government securities. exercise of options an option will normally be exercisable between three and 10 years following its grant provided any relevant performance condition has been satisfied. commitments astrazeneca is required to pay approximately $800m over at least a five-year period which commenced in 1999, under the terms of an agreement with schering-plough. more than 20 brand name prescription drug manufacturers and eight wholesalers have been named defendants in some or all of these suits. also, all significant actions arising from a restructuring and their completion dates must be identified by the balance sheet date. 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after 15 december 2002. astrazeneca has not yet determined whether it will adopt the transition provisions of sfas no. movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into us dollars may therefore have a material adverse effect on astrazeneca’ s financial condition and results of operations. the notional principal amount of financial instruments used to hedge these exposures, principally forward foreign exchange contracts and purchased currency options, at 31 december 2002 was $47 million. in addition, certain states have taken action to require further manufacturer rebates on medicaid drug utilisation and for other state pharmaceutical assistance programmes. on the other hand, outpatient prescription drug coverage could improve access to pharmaceutical products for senior citizens, albeit at potentially lower realised prices. substantial product liability claims that are not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on astrazeneca’ s financial condition and results of operations. in some circumstances, such liability could have a material adverse effect on astrazeneca’s financial position and results of operations. employees should avoid entering into situations in which their personal, family or financial interests may conflict with those of the astrazeneca group. the storage of personal data in an electronic medium may be governed by laws with which relevant employees should familiarise themselves.