finally, advances in science and technology promise the continued delivery of new medicines that can make a real difference to patient health. patents on some of the world’s most successful innovative medicines are starting to expire and we face increasing competition from generic alternatives. during 2011, two of the phase iii trials for tc-5214, our neuroscience collaboration with targacept, did not meet their primary endpoint. in december, we also announced that our investigational compound olaparib (azd2281) for the treatment of ovarian cancer will not progress into phase iii. industry returns are under pressure from declining r&d productivity and intensifying pricing pressures, particularly in established markets facing rising healthcare costs. we also face increased competition from generic medicines as some of the world’s most successful drugs come off patent. in addition, greater regulatory constraints are being placed on the pharmaceutical industry by governments and those who pay for our medicines. globally, it is estimated that the number of people over 65 will be almost one billion by 2030, double what it was in 2005. faster-developing economies, such as china, india and brazil, offer new opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry to help an expanding number of patients who can benefit from innovative medicines. for some audiences, there is a perception that pharmaceutical companies place their commercial goals above the interests of patients, physicians and payers. we need the following resources, skills and capabilities to deliver our strategy: > an r&d function with world class productivity. in 2011, we continued our core research focus on six therapy areas: cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, neuroscience, infection, oncology and respiratory & inflammation. going forward, our focus will be on identifying key candidate medicines that have the highest potential to deliver technical and commercial success. patent term extensions (pte) are available in certain major markets including the eu and us to compensate for these delays. see the principal risks and uncertainties section from page 130. many of our products are subject to challenges by third parties. if a product takes an unusually long time to secure marketing approval or if patent protection has not been secured, expired or lost, then rdp may be the sole ip right protecting a product from copying as generics should not be approved and marketed until rdp has expired. they also contribute to increased productivity by reducing or preventing the incidence of diseases that keep people away from work. the programme also provides additional incentives for those patients who adhere to their treatment regimens which helps improve health outcomes and benefit our business. these approaches are part of our overall access to healthcare strategy which can be found in the responsible business section from page 47 . in 2011, we continued to establish more efficient processes, with experts from our global supply chain organisation providing cross-functional support throughout the business. alongside this we ran an internal leadership programme to reinforce the cultural aspects of more efficient supply chain processes. we are actively involved in providing input into new product manufacturing regulations, both at national and international levels, through our membership of industry associations. this increase has been accompanied by headcount reductions as a result of our continuing strategic drive to improve efficiency and effectiveness. we always seek to operate at the highest of these various standards, whether this is our code, national legislation or other applicable codes. introduction at astrazeneca, we are dedicated to the research, development, manufacture and marketing of medicines that make a difference in healthcare. the key principles are that our partnerships: > lead to positive, measurable outcomes in underserved communities > can be scaled up and potentially replicated to improve outcomes for a greater number of people > deliver a sustainable framework that can ultimately be owned and managed locally, without the need for our support. this means that we have committed to uphold 10 internationally recognised principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption. our responsible procurement process is based on an escalating set of risk-based due diligence activities, applied in a pragmatic way. forty five percent of supplier sites audited demonstrated standards that met our expectations with a further 51% implementing improvements to address non-compliances. our long-standing ‘road scholars’ scheme in the us continues to be a valuable channel for building awareness and improving driver skills. we regret that during 2011 one of our employees was killed in a road traffic accident while driving on astrazeneca business. work-related stress remains our greatest single category of occupational illness with high workloads, interpersonal issues and organisational change identified as significant factors. as part of our ongoing efforts in this area, we are adopting an increasingly proactive, risk-based approach, using wellbeing risk assessment tools to identify high-risk areas and target interventions more effectively. through our three patient assistance programmes in the us we donated products valued at an average wholesale price of over $938 million (2010: $1.38 billion). we also donated products worth $8.2 million, valued at average wholesale price, to the charitable organisations: americares and direct relief international. astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2011 56 therapy area review pipeline by therapy area at 31 december 2011 cardiovascular phase i phase iii/ registration line extensions phase ii > azd2820 # > azd2927 > azd4017 > brilinta/brilique > dapagliflozin # > axanum > brilinta/brilique pegasus-timi > crestor # (elevated crp ) > dapagliflozin/ metformin fdc # > dapagliflozin # (diabetes – add on to dpp-iv) > dapagliflozin # (diabetes – add on to insulin and add on to metformin lt data) > dapagliflozin # (diabetes – in patients with high cv risk – study 18 and 19 data) > kombiglyze xr tm / komboglyze tm fdc # * > onglyza tm savor-timi # infection > azd5099 > azd5847 > medi-534 > medi-550 > medi-557 > medi-559 > azd9773 # > cxl # (cef104) > caz avi # (caz104) > q-laiv flu vac (medi-3250) > zinforo # (ceftaroline) > flumist/fluenz neuroscience > azd1446 # > azd3241 > azd3839 # > azd5213 > medi-578 > azd2423 > azd3480 # > azd6765 > tc-5214 # (monotherapy) > nktr-118 # > tc-5214 # (adjunct) > diprivan # > emla # oncology > azd1480 > azd2014 > azd3514 > azd5363 # > azd8330 # (arry-424704) > medi-551 # > medi-565 # > medi-573 # > medi-3617 # > moxetumomab pasudotox # (cat-8015) > olaparib > selumetinib # (azd6244) (arry-142886)/ mk2206 > azd4547 > azd8931 > fostamatinib # ** > medi-575 # > selumetinib # (azd6244) (arry-142886) > tremelimumab # > caprelsa (vandetanib) > ranmark tm # (denosumab) > faslodex (high dose (500mg) 2nd line advanced breast cancer) > faslodex (1st line advanced breast cancer) > iressa (1st line egfr mut+ nsclc) > i ressa (treatment beyond progression) respiratory & inflammation > azd2115 > medi-546 # > medi-551 # > medi-570 # > azd1981 > azd2423 > azd5069 > azd5423 > azd8683 > benralizumab # (medi-563) > mavrilimumab # (cam-3001) > medi-8968 # > sifalimumab # (medi-545) > tralokinumab (cat-354) > fostamatinib # > oxis > symbicort (asthma/copd) > symbicort (copd) > symbicort (smart) # partnered product. for the secondary efficacy measure of normalised total atheroma volume, crestor demonstrated a statistically significant reduction compared with atorvastatin. our marketed products cardiovascular diseases > crestor 1 (rosuvastatin calcium) is a statin used for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and hypercholesterolemia. > atacand 2 (candesartan cilexetil) is an angiotensin ii antagonist used for the 1st line treatment of hypertension and symptomatic heart failure. brilinta/brilique (ticagrelor) is an oral antiplatelet treatment for acs in a new chemical class called cyclo-pentyl-triazolo-pyrimidines which are selective adenosine diphospate (adp) receptor antagonists that act on the p2y12 adp-receptor. that month brilinta was also added to the updated aha/accf coronary artery bypass graft (cabg) and secondary prevention & risk reduction guidelines. however, newer classes such as oral dipeptidyl peptidase iv (dpp-iv) inhibitors are successfully entering the market by offering effective blood sugar control and improved tolerability. patients with infections which are resistant to commonly used antibiotics will also be included in the phase iii programme. therapy area world market (mat/q3/11) ($bn) 67.0 5.9 33.7 44.3 market sectors psychiatry neurology analgesia anaesthesia astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2011 business review therapy area review neuroscience 67 our strategic objectives there is still significant unmet medical need in the areas of chronic pain, cognitive disorders and other serious central nervous system disorders. there remains a high unmet medical need for products that enable continued opioid pain control by reducing or eliminating side effects. in this collaboration, researchers focus on the protein tau, which is a key component of neurofibrillary tangles that characterise ad. > pulmicort respules (budesonide inhalation suspension) is a nebulised corticosteroid used for the treatment of asthma in both children and adults. rheumatology rheumatoid arthritis (ra) is currently treated with generic disease- modifying anti-rheumatic agents and, where the relevant criteria are met, biologic disease-modifiers. novel oral drugs targeting intra-cellular signalling pathways that provide anti-tnf-like levels of efficacy and potentially more convenient dosing will likely be used both after and ahead of the tnf blockers, especially in patients who currently choose not to take, are anxious about taking or are ineligible to take, injectable biologic agents. current treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) focuses on controlling disease flares, preventing renal failure and suppressing symptoms to an acceptable level while minimising toxicity. we achieved double digit year-on-year sales growth for most of our key products, nexium, seroquel xr, symbicort, zoladex, atacand and seloken. brazilian sales for the year were impacted by loss of exclusivity not only on crestor but also atacand monotherapy and seroquel ir. as a result, core financial measures merely allow investors to differentiate between different kinds of costs and they should not be used in isolation. the set retains strategic management of the costs excluded from reported financial information in arriving at core financial measures, tracking their impact on reported operating profit and eps, with operational management being delegated on a case-by- case basis to ensure clear accountability and consistency for each cost category. if the option is exercised in 2012, this will effectively end astrazeneca’s relationships with, and obligations to, merck (other than some residual manufacturing arrangements). in light of current market conditions, debts within these euro countries have been subject to enhanced monitoring and scrutiny by the group. this methodology results in a less volatile income statement charge than under the alternative approach of recognising actuarial gains and losses over time. so its main focus is on developing policy and remuneration decisions that support the group’s strategy as a focused, integrated, innovation- driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business. variable pay forms a significant part of the overall remuneration opportunity for executive directors, set members and other senior executives. this is to avoid mechanistic outcomes under the terms of any remuneration plan which would provide for rewards that are not justified either by underlying business performance or in circumstances where astrazeneca has suffered reputational damage. set members lti plans (variable) long-term equity incentive awards to provide individual executives and employees with total compensation opportunities that are competitive against local market practice, for the achievement of operational excellence, strong financial performance and actions that are closely aligned with the interests of shareholders. generally, psp share awards can be granted at any time (although in practice they are awarded annually), but not during a close or prohibited period of the company. in accordance with the company’s articles, following their appointment, directors must retire at each agm and may present themselves for election or re-election. we believe that the forward-looking statements about astrazeneca in this annual report, identified by words such as ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’ and ‘intends’, are based on reasonable assumptions. in recent years, companies sponsoring new drug applications and regulatory authorities have been under increased public pressure to apply more conservative benefit/risk criteria. delays to anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors including adverse findings in preclinical or clinical studies, regulatory demands, competitor activity and technology transfer. if a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we are unable to fully recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in emerging markets may materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. see the intellectual property section from page 34 which contains a table of certain patent expiry dates for our key marketed products. this is a particular risk in some emerging markets where appropriate patent protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce. in particular, as discussed in the pricing pressure section on page 18, germany, spain, portugal and greece have all introduced a number of short-term measures to lower healthcare spending, including price cuts or increased mandatory rebates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. this draft guideline will likely be finalised in 2012 and is expected to include more clarification around the definition of biosimilars. there is also an increase in the maximum applicable penalties for bribery, including up to 10 years imprisonment and unlimited fines. in 2011, we terminated our existing outsource relationship for it infrastructure services and transitioned to a new multi-sourced operating model. litigation, particularly in the us, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages can result from an adverse verdict. movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into us dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. such payments are expensed if they represent compensation for subcontracted research and development services not resulting in a transfer of intellectual property. such a designation has been made where this significantly reduces an accounting mismatch which would result from recognising gains and losses on different bases. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. exchange differences on all other foreign currency transactions are taken to operating profit in the individual group entity’s accounting records. unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxes and/ or uk taxation (after allowing for double tax relief) if distributed as dividends. the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised totalled approximately $9,155m at 31 december 2011 (2010: $16,768m; 2009: $14,846m). 6 segment information astrazeneca is engaged in a single business activity of pharmaceuticals and the group does not have multiple operating segments. no terminal value is included as these cash flows are more than sufficient to establish that an impairment does not exist. – interest rate swaps – the fair value is estimated using appropriate zero coupon curve valuation techniques to discount future contractual cash flows based on rates current at year end. the different levels have been defined as follows: > level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. in the absence of specific market data, these unlisted investments are held at cost, adjusted as necessary for impairments, which approximates to fair value. there is also one senior staff long-term incentive scheme, under which approximately 70 participants may be eligible for awards granted as astrazeneca adss. exercise of options an option will normally be exercisable between three and 10 years following its grant provided any relevant performance condition has been satisfied. (contingent payments on the authorised generic version of felodipine will continue until astrazeneca’s third party distribution arrangement ends, which is currently expected to occur in june 2012.) we also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. the hearing of the damages action is scheduled to begin in march 2012. nexium (esomeprazole magnesium) us patent litigation in may 2011 and january 2012, astrazeneca entered into agreements, respectively, with each of sandoz inc. (sandoz) and lupin limited (lupin) settling astrazeneca’s patent infringement actions against those entities. all directors must retire from office at the company’s agm each year and may present themselves for election or re-election. phase ii studies are typically conducted in a relatively small number of patients (usually no more than several hundred).