in her place, john varley took over as senior independent non-executive director and rudy markham became chairman of the audit committee. pascal joined us from roche where he had been serving as chief operating ofﬁcer of the company’s pharmaceuticals division. it was the day on which david brennan announced his decision to retire from astrazeneca as your chief executive ofﬁcer. on the other hand, taken together, symbicort, faslodex, onglyza, iressa, brilinta/brilique and seroquel xr accounted for more than $600 million of revenue growth. leif johansson chairman “ 2012 financial performance was defined by significant revenue decline associated with the loss of exclusivity for several products. our collaboration with amgen encompasses ﬁve clinical stage projects in inﬂammation, including brodalumab, which has already entered phase iii development. we also face increased competition from generic medicines as some of the world’s most successful drugs come off patent. faster-developing economies, such as china, india and brazil, offer new opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry to help an expanding number of patients who can beneﬁt from innovative medicines. consequently, there is a heightened interest by health authorities in both comparative clinical effectiveness and the ongoing beneﬁt/risk assessment of medicines after they have been approved. astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 19 performance corporate governance financial statements additional information strategy overview the committee discussions ended without reaching an agreement and, barring future action by congress, sequestration was to take effect on 2 january 2013. sequestration would have impacted most federal government healthcare programmes with broad reductions in federal government spending. in germany, europe’s largest pharmaceutical market, manufacturers are now required to prove the additional beneﬁt of their drugs over existing alternatives. for some audiences, there is a perception that pharmaceutical companies place their commercial goals above the interests of patients, physicians and payers. innovative medicines offer beneﬁts that go beyond improving patient outcomes, helping to deliver economic efﬁciencies and supporting more effective allocation of scarce resources. performance | business review astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 32 a goal to speed the discovery of essential new treatments for tuberculosis (tb). calls for ‘open access’ to clinical data raise complex practical, legal and ethical issues around full disclosure of patient information. patent term extensions (pte) are available in certain major markets including the eu and us to compensate for these delays. see the principal risks and uncertainties section from page 75. many of our products are subject to challenges by third parties. for example, primary care physicians tend to be younger on average than previously, a greater proportion is female, and more work part-time. they also contribute to increased productivity by reducing or preventing the incidence of diseases that keep people away from work. in 2012, we continued to establish more efﬁcient processes, with experts from our global supply chain organisation providing cross-functional support throughout the business. forty-three percent of suppliers audited demonstrated standards that met our expectations, with a further 53% implementing improvements to address minor non- compliances. 12 1.15 11 1.21 10 1.21 greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes) 12 47.2 11 49.0 10 46.9 waste production (thousand tonnes) 12 3.6 11 4.5 10 4.5 water use (million m 3 ) astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 43 strategy corporate governance financial statements additional information performance overview people a talented and diverse workforce with the right capabilities operating in a high performance culture that enables us to bring great medicines to patients workforce composition ﬁgure overleaf. with approximately 51,700 people in over 100 countries worldwide, we value the talents, skills and capabilities that a global workforce brings to our business. driving employee engagement we use a variety of global leadership communication channels to engage employees in our business strategy. introduction at astrazeneca, we are dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialisation of prescription medicines that make a difference in healthcare. the full assurance statement, which contains detailed scope, methodology, overall opinion and recommendations can be found on our website, astrazeneca.com/responsibility. through our three patient assistance programmes in the us we donated products valued at an average wholesale price of over $1.12 billion (2011: $938 million). we also donated products worth over $5.8 million, valued at average wholesale price, to charitable organisations americares and direct relief international. our marketed products cardiovascular diseases > crestor 1 (rosuvastatin calcium) is a statin used for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and hypercholesterolemia. > atacand 2 (candesartan cilexetil) is an angiotensin ii antagonist used for the 1 st line treatment of hypertension and symptomatic heart failure. brilinta/brilique is an oral antiplatelet treatment for acs in a new chemical class called cyclo-pentyl-triazolo-pyrimidines which are selective adenosine diphospate (adp) receptor antagonists that act on the p2y12 adp-receptor. additional data from ongoing clinical studies will be submitted to further support the beneﬁt/risk proﬁle of forxiga with resubmission targeted for mid-2013. azd9773 (formerly known as cytofab), was a potential treatment for severe sepsis licensed from protherics inc. (now part of the btg plc group). patients with infections which are resistant to commonly used antibiotics will also be included in the phase iii programme. our early research and development efforts aim to address multi-resistant bacterial strains expressing metallo-betalactamases, for which very few, if any, treatment options exist. our most advanced programme, azd5847 (a novel anti-tubercular oxazolidinone antibiotic), progressed to phase iia trials in south africa, with support from the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases. drug discovery efforts involving apoe have been hampered by challenging biology and a lack of suitable in vivo models. clear opportunities exist for novel approaches targeting deﬁned patient sub-groups not adequately treated with current generic broad spectrum agents. there remains a high unmet medical need for products that enable continued opioid pain control by reducing or eliminating side effects. at any time, more than 450 million people worldwide are affected by mental, neurological or behavioural problems, and the rate is steadily rising. we aspire to enter the rheumatology market through our biologics pipeline and targeted small molecule approaches such as fostamatinib. in june, astrazeneca acquired ardea, a san diego, california-based biotechnology company focused on the development of small molecule therapeutics. instead of being shed, the skin cells pile up, causing painful and itchy, red, scaly patches that can bleed. > astrazeneca is the eighth largest prescription-based pharmaceutical company in western europe, with a 3.4% market share of sales by value. this amount reﬂects only those effects of the affordable care act that we know have had or will have a direct impact on our ﬁnancial condition or results of operations and which we are therefore able to quantify based on known and isolatable resulting changes in individual ﬁnancial items within our financial statements. some strong growth markets such as vietnam are also implementing price and volume controls in an attempt to control government spending. we believe that the forward-looking statements about astrazeneca in this annual report, identiﬁed by words such as ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’ and ‘intends’, are based on reasonable assumptions. in recent years, companies sponsoring ndas and regulatory authorities have been under increased public pressure to apply more conservative beneﬁt/risk criteria. delays to anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors including adverse ﬁndings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer. if a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we are unable to fully recoup the costs incurred in launching it, which could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. the failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in emerging markets may materially adversely affect our reputation, business or results of operations. see the intellectual property section on page 35 which contains a table of certain patent expiry dates for our key marketed products. this is a particular risk in some emerging markets where appropriate patent protection may be difﬁcult to obtain or enforce. there is also an increase in the maximum applicable penalties for bribery, including up to 10 years imprisonment and unlimited ﬁnes. this migration activity may not be completed on time and within budget, which could adversely impact our business or results of operations. litigation, particularly in the us, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly high awards for damages can result from an adverse verdict. failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control and regulation, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into us dollars may materially adversely affect our ﬁnancial condition or results of operations. as a result, core ﬁnancial measures merely allow investors to differentiate between different kinds of costs and they should not be used in isolation. the set retains strategic management of the costs excluded from reported ﬁnancial information in arriving at core ﬁnancial measures, tracking their impact on reported operating proﬁt and eps, with operational management being delegated on a case-by-case basis to ensure clear accountability and consistency for each cost category. in light of current market conditions, debts within these eurozone countries have been subject to enhanced monitoring and scrutiny by the group. adjusting for these items removes the volatility when impairments are booked on such assets and is intended to provide a better measure of underlying business performance. this methodology results in a less volatile income statement charge than under the alternative approach of recognising actuarial gains and losses over time. he is a doctor of veterinary medicine (école nationale vétérinaire d’alfort, maisons-alfort) and holds an mba from l ’institut supérieur des affaires, jouy-en-josas. in this capacity, he is accountable for driving growth and maximising the contribution of north america to astrazeneca’s global business. i am delighted that we were able to recruit pascal soriot and appoint him as astrazeneca’s new ceo with effect from 1 october. the biographies of board members set out on pages 106 and 107 give more information about current directors in this respect. we have not yet produced a remuneration report that is fully compliant with the proposed new regulations because they are still to be published in their ﬁnal form. those reviews take place relative to group and individual objectives which are set at the beginning of each year. in accordance with the articles, following their appointment, directors must retire at each agm and may present themselves for election or re-election. under the articles, all directors must, within two months of their appointment, acquire a beneﬁcial interest in at least 500 shares. we are also committed to sharing our global r&d expertise with the russian scientiﬁc community through research collaborations, support programmes and clinical trials. such payments are expensed if they represent compensation for subcontracted research and development services not resulting in a transfer of intellectual property. such a designation has been made where this significantly reduces an accounting mismatch which would result from recognising gains and losses on different bases. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. unremitted earnings may be liable to overseas taxes and/or uk taxation (after allowing for double tax relief) if distributed as dividends. the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised totalled approximately $8,655m at 31 december 2012 (2011: $9,155m; 2010: $16,768m). no terminal value is included as these cash flows are more than sufficient to establish that an impairment does not exist. economic benefits include relief from contingent payments and other cost efficiencies, together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate. the different levels have been defined as follows: > level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. in the absence of specific market data, these unlisted investments are held at cost, adjusted as necessary for impairments, which approximates to fair value. further details are included in note 24. other provisions comprise amounts relating to specific contractual or constructive obligations and disputes. these principles are appropriate to astrazeneca’s business at the present date; should circumstances change they may require review. there is also one senior staff long-term incentive scheme, under which 76 participants may be eligible for awards granted as astrazeneca adss. an option will normally be exercisable between three and 10 years following its grant provided any relevant performance condition has been satisfied. in november 2012, the court ruled that legal proceedings astrazeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its business, including actual or threatened litigation and/or actual or potential government investigations relating to employment matters, product liability, commercial disputes, pricing, sales and marketing practices, infringement of ip rights, the validity of certain patents and competition laws. we also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. other matter we have reported separately on the group financial statements of astrazeneca plc for the year ended 31 december 2012. jimmy daboo senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of kpmg audit plc, statutory auditor chartered accountants 15 canada square, london, e14 5gl 31 january 2013 independent auditor’s report to the members of astrazeneca plc financial statements | company balance sheet astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 193 strategy performance corporate governance additional information financial statements overview astrazeneca plc notes 2012 $m 2011 $m fixed assets fixed asset investments 1 25,349 23,421 current assets debtors – other 3 1 debtors – amounts owed by group undertakings 6,589 1,937 6,592 1,938 creditors: amounts falling due within one year non-trade creditors 2 (956) (3,217) interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 – (1,749) (956) (4,966) net current assets/(liabilities) 5,636 (3,028) total assets less current liabilities 30,985 20,393 creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year amounts owed to group undertakings 3 (283) (283) interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3 (8,742) (6,714) (9,025) (6,997) net assets 21,960 13,396 capital and reserves called-up share capital 6 312 323 share premium account 4 3,504 3,078 capital redemption reserve 4 153 139 other reserves 4 2,904 2,983 profit and loss account 4 15,087 6,873 shareholders’ funds 5 21,960 13,396 $m means millions of us dollars. all directors must retire from ofﬁce at the company’s agm each year and may present themselves for election or re-election. corporate information overview strategy performance corporate governance financial statements additional information astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 209 additional information | glossary glossary market deﬁnitions united states of america other established markets emerging markets us western europe japan emerging europe china other emerging row austria albania* egypt belgium canada belarus* emerging asia paciﬁc gulf states denmark bosnia and herzegovina bangladesh* israel* finland other established rowbulgaria cambodia* latin america france australia croatia hong kong lebanon* germany new zealand czech republic india maghreb greece estonia* indonesia* saudi arabia iceland* georgia* laos* south africa ireland hungary malaysia italy kazakhstan* philippines luxembourg* latvia* singapore netherlands lithuania* south korea norway macedonia* sri lanka* portugal poland taiwan spain romania* thailand sweden russia vietnam* switzerland serbia and montenegro* uk slovakia slovenia* turkey ukraine* rest of world means other established markets and emerging markets. latin america includes argentina, brazil, chile, colombia, costa rica*, el salvador*, guatemala*, honduras*, mexico, nicaragua*, panama*, peru* and venezuela.