sir christopher bland chairman 18 may 2005 today, bt is a very different company from the one that i joined three years ago. ultimately, our customers shouldn’t have to worry about ﬁxed or mobile when what they really want is freedom and ﬂexibility. ofcom is currently involved in discussions with bt and others aimed at assessing whether a settlement based on equality of access would be feasible. as part of the agreement, bt will migrate these services to a state-of-the-art, high- speed, ip-based global mpls (multi-protocol label switching) infrastructure. & during the 2005 ﬁnancial year, we redesigned and reduced the price for our llu (local loop unbundling) product (see regulation, competition and prices – local loop unbundling)byupto 70% in a phased series of price cuts which will, we believe, make it easier for llu operators to invest in broadband infrastructure with conﬁdence. this presents the 102,100 people employed by bt at 31 march 2005 with opportunities to develop innovative solutions, generate new business, drive efﬁciencies, and experience personal growth. salary ranges are now aligned with the going rate for equivalent jobs across a range of comparable organisations, geographies and skill sets. we continue to create a working environment that actively supports all our employees – regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, disability or age. we are also developing new high- quality online ways for customers to deal with us, in an intuitive and comprehensive manner. bt is a limited partner in the independent corporate venturing partnership, nvp brightstar, which generates value by launching key innovations as new high- technology businesses. regulatory conditions under the new framework, based on 2003 eu directives, providers may no longer be required to obtain licences before offering telecommunications services. the communications act allows ofcom to review markets for end-user apparatus and impose conditions on any provider designated with smp. the act obliges ofcom to carry out further analyses of markets which have been reviewed at such intervals as it considers appropriate. market investigations are intended to address competition issues in markets as a whole and not merely the behaviour of individual players. bt’s rates were set by the valuation ofﬁce after lengthy discussions based on well established principles in a transparent process. option 3, which was supported by most of the respondents to ofcom’s phase 2 consultation, would entail introducing more effective regulation focused on enduring economic bottlenecks. neither product is currently part of a price control but ofcom has imposed various regulatory conditions on the products, including notiﬁcation and cost orientation obligations. the company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential claim. the majority of these initiatives were targeted at people related costs, with signiﬁcant savings in billing, it operations and other support functions. external turnover is derived from providing wholesale products and solutions to other operators interconnecting with bt’s uk ﬁxed network. this reﬂects the continuing trend of customers migrating from lower bandwidth products to less expensive alternatives such as partial private circuits and short haul data services. however, due to the inherent volatilities introduced by ifrs, no such statement can be made in respect of future years. under ifrs 3 ‘business combinations’, goodwill is no longer amortised but held at carrying value on the balance sheet and tested annually for impairment. for example, more than 10,500 schools and over two million young people have taken part in the bt education programme – a drama-based campaign helping children to improve their communication skills. during the 2005 ﬁnancial year, we also launched relate 3000, an inclusively designed phone and our new bt text service, which includes a speaking sms facility. prior to his retirement in may 2001, clayton brendish was executive deputy chairman of cmg having joined the board when it acquired admiral. corporate governance bt group plc annual report and form 20-f 2005 51 as a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be necessary to employ the company’s external auditors for certain non-audit work. it reviews the arrangements for dealing, in conﬁdence, with complaints from employees about accounting or ﬁnancial management impropriety, fraud, poor business practices and other matters. awards will be linked to a sliding scale of bt global services’ performance, weighted equally around revenue growth, ebit and cash generation. pension provision for all executives is based on salary alone – bonuses, other elements of pay and long-term incentives are excluded. further details of appointment arrangements for non-executive directors are set out on page 50 in the section dealing with corporate governance issues. following this year’s salary review, the committee decided that there should be no general increase from 1 june 2005 in basic salaries. turnover from classiﬁed directories, mainly comprising advertising revenue, is recognised in the group proﬁt and loss account upon completion of delivery. bt’s rates were set by the valuation ofﬁce after lengthy discussions based on well established principles, in a transparent process. the company has concluded that it is not appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential ﬁnding. securities classiﬁed as available-for-sale would be stated at fair values, with unrealised gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, reported in shareholders’ equity. sharegift the orr mackintosh foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. for further information on the unclaimed assets register, visit www.uar.co.uk or telephone 0870 241 1713. exchange rates bt publishes its consolidated ﬁnancial statements expressed in pounds sterling. us persons who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish irs form w-9 (request for taxpayer identiﬁcation number and certiﬁcation). similarly, 138 bt group plc annual report and form 20-f 2005 additional information for shareholders ordinary shares and/or adss passing on the death of a us-domiciled shareholder, who is not a uk national, will not generally be subject to uk inheritance tax if the estate is subject to us estate tax. ultimately, our customers shouldn’t have to worry about fixed or mobile when what they really want is freedom and flexibility. but now that we’ve delivered those five million connections more than a year ahead of schedule, no one seems very surprised. in recent years, our networking skills have enabled us to establish bt as one of the world’s foremost global networked it services companies. and if anyone wanted proof that bt really is transforming itself for growth, they would only have to look at some of the recent contracts we’ve won. however, due to the inherent volatilities introduced by ifrs, no such statement can be made in respect of future years. executive directors and most other senior executives who joined the company prior to 1 april 2001 receive their pensions under defined benefit arrangements. b* c* d louis r hughes a us national, appointed to the board on 1 january 2000. non-executive chairman of maxager technology inc. (usa). b e carl g symon a us national, appointed to the board on 14 january 2002. formerly chairman and chief executive officer of ibm uk. telephone shareholder helpline – for general enquiries call: freefone 0808 100 4141 (+44 121 433 4404 from outside the uk) email send an email to kevan dale at: kevanlloydstsb-registrars.co.uk post please write (including a daytime telephone number) to: lloyds tsb registrars (2450) the causeway worthing west sussex bn99 6da other publications bt produces a series of reports on its financial, business, social and environmental performance. sharegift the orr mackintosh foundation operates a charity donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares which may be uneconomic to sell.