i am acutely aware that there is no room for complacency in a sector which has seen unprecedented change, bringing both opportunities and challenges. my sincere thanks to them for everything that has been done so far.” sebastian james group chief executive 16 july 2015 cautionary statement certain statements made in this annual report and accounts are forward looking. it has also evolved bespoke customer relationship management tools which enable services such as upgrade reminders, data storage and tariff checks. the market is served by a relatively small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national and international electrical retailers. as a result we are able to offer customers very competitive prices against our competitor set and still be more profitable. we are also utilising our intellectual property to assist third parties, such as samsung and now sprint, in connected retailing. capital employed is based on net assets including capitalised leases, but excluding goodwill, cash, tax and the defined benefit pension obligations. dixons carphone plc annual report and accounts 2014/15 strategic report performance review 22 group group pro forma headline revenue was up 2% to £9,936 million (2013/14: £9,752 million) and up 6% on a local currency basis, with both including a 2% benefit due to an extra five weeks of trading from the carphone warehouse business. in may 2015, the group launched id, a new mobile network focused on providing users with increased contract flexibility, greater access to free data roaming and competitively priced 4g tariffs. in addition the ‘epoq’ kitchen business has provided very encouraging results with strong revenue growth, driving market share and appliance sales. although it has been negatively impacted by these pressures, we have a strong management team in place, which continues to innovate and develop the business. we have also focused the business model to a greater extent on franchise operations and reduced our own store portfolio. discussions, which commenced with potential acquirers during 2014/15, are advanced and an announcement confirming details of the disposal is expected in due course. our first combined dixons carphone saye scheme in the uk and ireland was launched with 20% of colleagues electing to join. dental insurance and a health cash plan are also available at special corporate rates for employees who wish to participate. in the last year, 75% of material generated by our stores now goes to recycling schemes and not into landfill. consideration is currently being given to replacement for john allan as senior independent director and the board will update shareholders once a decision has been taken. these directors are john gildersleeve, andrea gisle joosen, tim how, jock lennox, baroness morgan of huyton and gerry murphy. he is supported by a dedicated investor relations department that, amongst other matters, organises presentations for analysts and institutional investors. no person has any special rights of control over the company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. where assignments are expected to generate fees of over £100,000, approval must be obtained from the audit committee in advance. in order to keep overall remuneration weighted towards variable pay that incentivises outperformance we are providing a modest level of benefits. a defined benefit pension plan continues in operation for dixons’ longer serving employees, which is now closed to new participants and future accrual. • operation bonus payments are determined after the year end and subject to a minimum profit threshold being achieved before payment is due. our arrangements are intentionally more leveraged than a standard uk performance share plan: no payouts would be due at a threshold level of performance and the higher payout levels would result only where significant shareholder value had been created (for example, £1.6 billion of incremental shareholder returns at the maximum level). recruitment table area feature policy service contract and incentive plan provisions notice period • up to 12 months from either side. annual remuneration salary • to be determined on appointment, taking into account factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost. there is an obligation on directors to mitigate any loss which they may suffer if the company terminates their service contract. dixons carphone plc annual report and accounts 2014/15 corporate governance 67 the performance metrics and their weightings for 2015/16 are shown in the table below: weighting (as a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity) ebit 60% net debt 10% roce 10% customer net promoter score 10% employee engagement 10% iv) ltip there will be no further ltip grants for executive directors during 2015/16. the following directors were appointed on 6 august 2014: sebastian james, humphrey singer, katie bickerstaffe, graham stapleton, andrea gisle joosen, tim how and jock lennox. commission includes a share of customer airtime spend, to the extent that it can be reliably measured and there are no ongoing service obligations. where share-based payments have external performance criteria (such as tsr targets) a monte carlo model is used to measure fair value. these intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal. software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment in value or estimated loss on disposal. amortisation is provided to write off the cost of assets on a straight line basis between three and eight years. such assumptions are based on extensive historical evidence, and provision is made for the risk of potential changes in customer behaviour. this information is predominantly based on geographical areas which are either managed separately or have similar trading characteristics such that they can be aggregated together into one segment. all leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments. it is expected that any costs associated with these contingent liabilities will be incurred over the next four years. discussions which commenced with potential acquirers during 2014/15 are advanced and an announcement confirming details of the disposal is expected in due course. throughout the period under review, in accordance with group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted. these exposures primarily arise from inventory purchases, with most of the group’s exposure being to us dollar and euro fluctuations. future cash flows arising from these financial instruments depend on interest rates and periods agreed at the time of rollover. investments where the company does not have control or significant influence are treated as available-for-sale and recorded at fair value. c6 creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2 may 2015 £million 29 march 2014 £million amounts owed to group undertakings 119 21 other creditors 31 5 accruals and deferred income 10 28 160 54 c7 provisions 2 may 2015 £million 29 march 2014 £million opening balance 2 6 utilised in the period / year — (4) closing balance 2 2 c8 loans payable details of loans payable are provided in note 17 to the group financial statements. financial calendar ex-dividend date (final dividend 2014/15) 27 aug 2015 record date (final dividend 2014/15) 28 aug 2015 annual general meeting 10 sep 2015 intended dividend payment date (final dividend 2014/15) 25 sep 2015 registered office / head office 1 portal way london w3 6rs united kingdom +44 (0)20 8617 6002 www.dixonscarphone.com company registration number 07105905 company secretary enquiries should be directed to: nigel paterson company secretary and general counsel cpwlegal@cpwplc.com investor relations enquiries should be directed to: kate ferry, investor relations director mark reynolds, investor relations manager ir@dixonscarphone.com advisors auditor deloitte llp 2 new street square london ec4a 3bz joint stockbrokers deutsche bank ag 1 great winchester street london ec2n 2db citigroup global markets limited 33 canada square canary wharf e14 5lb dixons carphone plc annual report and accounts 2014/15 investor information glossary and definitions 147 the following definitions apply throughout this annual report and accounts unless the context otherwise requires: acquisition intangibles acquired intangible assets such as customer bases, brands and other intangible assets acquired through a business combination capitalised separately from goodwill.