bae systems plc and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under english law. growing demand for our advanced precision kill weapon system (apkws™) laser-guided rockets, with awards totalling nearly 300m (£222m) during the year and over 13,000 units delivered at 31 december. our us-based electronic systems business received orders on the f-35 lightning ii programme worth over 450m (£333m) for additional hardware production and five years of support. we use these capabilities primarily in the defence sector but, where appropriate, extend our reach into related and adjacent commercial market areas. additional dry dock capacity at our san diego shipyard became operational in february 2017 and accepted its first ship during the year. during 2017, we rolled out further ethics training across the group to support employees and, in january 2018, launched our revised code of conduct. group strategic framework 18 19 bae systems annual report 2017 strategic report governance financial statements our markets sales 1 by destination c d b e a a us 39% b uk 21% c saudi arabia 16% d australia 3% e other international markets 2 21% 1. revenue plus the group’s share of revenue of equity accounted investments. we have a strong presence in sweden through our bae systems hägglunds business supplying and supporting tracked vehicles for international customers. this trend is not unusual for companies like ours which employ large numbers of people with qualifications in stem-related fields. we also work with potential overseas partners as part of our international campaigns and this can be a major discriminator in some markets. advances in sensor technology, robotics design and machine learning will increasingly enable humans to work safely alongside machines without stopping the production line. – order backlog was at a record high of 7.3bn (£5.4bn) following further awards for f-35 lightning ii systems, classified electronic warfare activity and apkws ™ product. production of our sensor technology for the long range anti-ship missile has commenced following a 40m (£30m) order from prime contractor lockheed martin. the converged collaborative elements for rf task operations – or concerto – programme is creating single, multi-function payloads that adapt to changing battlefield situations and mission needs in real time. group strategic framework 18 more online baesystems.com looking forward forward-looking information for the electronic systems reporting segment is provided later in this report. alternative performance measure definitions 06 41 bae systems annual report 2017 strategic report governance financial statements operational performance intelligence & security global analysis & operations we are pursuing task orders under a new indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract with an estimated value of more than 400m (£296m) to expand our work in motion-imagery analysis, analytic training, multi-media support and research for the us intelligence community. although we executed on our task orders and provided it services to foster greater systems integration and information sharing for the intelligence community, we have been advised that future contract options will not be exercised as the government reassesses its acquisition strategy in favour of a more federated desktop approach. in march, we received a contract from the us army worth up to 112m (£83m) for technical support and sustainment of m88 recovery vehicles. group strategic framework 18 more online baesystems.com looking forward forward-looking information for the platforms & services (us) reporting segment is provided later in this report. group strategic framework 18 more online baesystems.com looking forward forward-looking information reflecting the organisational changes described on page 48 is provided later in this report. financial performance financial performance measures defined in ifrs 2 2017 2016 revenue £3,136m £3,037m operating profit £427m £365m return on revenue 13.6% 12.0% cash flow from operating activities £669m £473m – order backlog was marginally higher at £13.3bn (2016 £13.1bn) as further order intake was booked under the renewal of the five-year support contract in saudi arabia and qatari naval orders became effective within mbda. 54 bae systems annual report 2017 segmental review platforms & services ( international ) the saudi arabian in-kingdom industrial participation programme continues to make good progress. integration of mbda missiles on f-35 lightning ii has progressed well, with successful advanced short range air-to-air missile qualification firings achieved and contracts received from the uk to integrate meteor. air – sales are expected to be some 5% lower as activity on typhoon for the european, saudi and oman contracts is largely complete. corporate responsibility is a key enabler for our business, supporting sustainable long-term performance by managing non-financial risks that can impact reputation and shareholder value. therefore, in line with the greenhouse gas protocol guidance, this figure has been calculated using residual-mix emission factors where available for our uk and us operations. the nature of our business, with large-scale projects and fluctuations in orders, makes it challenging to set a group-wide emissions reduction target. they are also responsible for reporting and monitoring key risks in accordance with established processes under the group’s operational framework. defence spending by governments can fluctuate depending on change of government policy, other political considerations, budgetary constraints, specific threats and movements in the international oil price. the us business has become adept at managing through continuing resolutions and brief government shutdowns, mitigating any short-term interruptions across our portfolio. bae systems benefits from a large order backlog, with established positions on long-term programmes in the us, uk, saudi arabia and australia. in the defence and security industries, governments can typically modify contracts for their convenience or terminate them at short notice. reduced access to export markets could have a material adverse effect on the group’s future results and financial condition. bae systems continues to reinforce its ethics programme globally, driving the right behaviours by supporting employees in making ethical decisions and embedding responsible business practices. the funding deficits may be adversely affected by changes in a number of factors, including investment returns and anticipated members’ longevity. board members engage with employees when visiting company sites around the world, and it has held ‘town hall’ meetings as part of such visits. lcm (lifecycle management policy) how we plan and manage the execution of all projects above a certain minimum level, providing decision gate reviews at key stages from initial opportunity to final closure. for all of these areas we aimed to understand how management assesses risk, from both an operational and reputational perspective. in reading this report, we hope you will agree that the results of our deliberations are consistent with these purposes. for jerry demuro, the single total figure of remuneration on page 99 includes his 2017 restricted shares award as required by regulation. in addition, upon his retirement, ian king received a leaving gift totalling £5k, with any tax due on this payment being settled by the company. 4. accrued benefit for charles woodburn is the total value of his defined contribution account, including employee contributions and investment returns. one-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject to compulsory deferral for three years in bae systems shares without any matching. additional benefits, such as relocation assistance, may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the committee. his appointment as chairman (which commenced on 1 february 2014) will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the company. as set out in note 32, bae systems has operating lease commitments totalling £1.6bn at 31 december 2017 and, therefore, ifrs 16 will have a material impact on the group. translation differences that arose before the transition date to ifrs (1 january 2004) are presented in equity, but not as a separate component. 2. with effect from 1 january 2017, certain tax services and investor information services are no longer provided by kpmg in order to ensure compliance with the financial reporting council’s revised regulations on ethical standards for auditors and eu regulations adopted by the uk which apply prohibitions to a range of engagements that could result in an auditor facing a conflict of interest. subsequent to initial recognition, loans and overdrafts are stated at either amortised cost or, where hedge accounting has been adopted, fair value in respect of the hedged risk. the group’s mbda joint venture is undertaking a number of significant contracts which include both development and production elements.