we completed subsidiary funding rounds in 2017 for hawkeye 360 , bridgesat, federated wireless and signature medical that each included external strategic investors. simon davidson joined the team in june as executive vice president, technology investments, bringing extensive experience working with federal laboratories and government customers. omar amirana, md, senior vice president, life sciences investments, has focused on investment theses revolving around proprietary minimally-invasive solutions for procedures with a clear reimbursement path that reduce morbidity, mortality and costs. we are largely focused in areas where adoption can be dramatic such as interventional cardiology, electrophysiology, neuroradiology, pulmonology, and gastroenterology. o on 5 october 2017, spin transfer technologies, inc. announced that it had secured 22.8 million of funding via a convertible bridge facility. • on 12 july 2017, bridgesat announced the appointment of barry matsumori, formerly a senior executive at qualcomm, spacex and virgin galactic, as ceo. subsidiary 2018 key operational management objectives bridgesat • successfully demonstrate end-to-end service: network operations centre (noc), at least one ground station, and customer pathfinder(s) • sign 2+ customer agreements; build strong commercial revenue backlog federated wireless • fcc certification • support multiple customer launches and realise commercial revenue • build out national availability of environmental sensing capability (esc) network to meet customer requirements hawkeye 360 • successfully launch pathfinder satellite cluster • launch marine domain awareness (mda) products and realise commercial revenue precision biopsy • gain ce mark • complete cohort b trial scifluor • initiate at least one phase ii trial for sf0166 • complete in-life investigational new drug (ind) enabling study for one new asset spin transfer technologies • successfully demonstrate the advantages of the spin polarizer and endurance engine • sign 2+ customer/partner agreements 9 annual report and accounts 2017 highlights (continued) strategic report board and management highlights following jill smith’s appointment as president and ceo, vacating her previous non-executive directorship, the board appointed harry rein as a non-executive director in august 2017. harry brings extensive experience from the venture capital sector, most recently serving as general partner for 10 years at foundation medical partners (foundation), an early stage venture capital firm focused on the healthcare sector. the company has defined six key success factors that, if present, can create the conditions for a superior exit valuation: • disruptive innovation solving an important problem (ideally with first mover advantage) • favourable market dynamics (large market and/or high growth rate) • sustainable competitive advantage (unique or superior solutions, with sustainable barriers to entry, potentially including ip) • route to widespread adoption (minimum barriers to adoption; known/available distribution channels) • capable management with aligned interest (right skill mix and accountability for delivery) • potential for competitive tension (operate to maximise exit optionality and nurture potential buyers) 11 annual report and accounts 2017 company overview (continued) strategic report (continued) source since inception, allied minds has sought to deliver the commercial potential of ip developed in universities, federal laboratories, and medical institutions, by working with technology transfer offices (ttos). it is a fact of life in early stage company creation and development that not all ideas or technologies will successfully transition to commercialisation. portfolio composition allied minds has identified six subsidiaries as defined earlier that we believe are well-positioned for commercialisation and have the potential to realise superior exit valuations. below we provide an overview of our 12 current operating subsidiary businesses, including year formed, and allied minds’ ownership interest. these valuations assume there will be available funds for the subsidiaries to reach next stages of their development towards commercial success or an exit event. the cost and speed characteristics of rf, together with increasingly scarce spectrum, make it difficult to support this increase in data downlink demand. bridgesat enjoys first mover advantages and is thought to be the only commercial entity currently building out a network of optical communications ground stations. bridgesat’s first target market is the fast-growing leo data downlink segment, currently estimated to be worth 1.5 billion annually. 2017 management objectives • complete series a fund-raise • acquire launch customers • demonstrate operation of first bridgesat ground station 20 annual report and accounts 2017 portfolio review and developments (continued) (continued) progress in 2017 • appointed barry matsumori as ceo • completed a 6.0 million series a fund-raise completed in may 2017, including participation by space angels, a venture capital firm focused on emerging space • signed ground station partnership with swedish space corporation (ssc) • first ground station designed and contracted with completion due in 2018 • contracted with launch customers (3 pathfinder customers signed and one space terminal delivered) • signed an agreement with tesat to develop interoperability with bridgesat’s ground station network • received a contract award in japan to deliver a geo space terminal for the ets-ix geo satellite programme 2018 key operational management objectives • successfully demonstrate end-to-end service: noc, at least one ground station, and customer pathfinder(s) • sign 2+ customer agreements; build strong commercial revenue backlog federated wireless , i nc . federated wireless is installing and will operate over one hundred esc sensors along substantial stretches of the us coastlines. • in q4 began field trials with customers covering all five of the spectrum sharing verticals, including charter communications; arris international; american tower as well as verizon and telrad (a wireless broadband provider or wisp) • after the period end, signed a multi-year commercial agreement with telrad in january to deliver lte fixed wireless services 2018 key operational management objectives • fcc certification • support multiple customer launches and realise commercial revenue • build out national availability of esc network to meet customer requirements ha wk e ye 360 , i nc . for example maritime vessels engaged in illegal fishing may seek to evade detection by switching off their ais (automatic identification system) and going “dark”. poor diagnosis rates mean that cancer is missed nearly half of the time and patients are subjected to repeat treatments. the spin polarizer adds an infinitesimal processing cost (fractions of a per cent) while greatly reducing silicon area. 2017 management objectives (as of march 2017) • advance technology to demonstrate differentiators • secure strategic development/investing partner • complete series b fund-raise note: after tom sparkman was hired as ceo, new objectives were set, including: • partner with tokyo electron limited (tel) • create 1g of data to demonstrate advanced pmtj capability • meet with 25+ potential partners • increase patent portfolio progress in 2017 • in july recruited tom sparkman as ceo, with previous executive roles at maxim, spansion • new strategy in place, transformed operational and commercial focus • in september signed a collaborative engineering program with tel providing expedited access to mram deposition tools and engineering resource 28 annual report and accounts 2017 portfolio review and developments (continued) • 1g data measured • held over 50 partner meetings • 87 new patents filed • 22.8 million bridge finance facility underwritten by allied minds in october 2017. spin transfer secured 10.3 million of funding via a convertible bridge facility with existing shareholders of the group in january 2018, which satisfied allied minds’ commitment to fulfill the remaining balance of the 2017 bridge facility with spin transfer. through this joint discovery process between allied minds and ge ventures’ technology licensing group, multiple promising candidates for eventual spin-out have been reviewed. while we have not yet identified a candidate that meets each of our investment criteria and objectives, we continue to seek an opportunity for allied minds to form new entities based on the cutting-edge technologies developed by one of the world’s leaders in technology innovation. it is possible that one or more of these identified risks could impact the group in a similar timeframe which may compound their effects. the group may not be able to sell its ownership interests in subsidiary businesses during any specific time frame or otherwise on desirable terms, if at all. he subsequently served as chairman and chief executive officer of gemin x, a venture capital backed oncology company that was sold to cephalon. bush appointed him as deputy executive director for the white house conference on science and economic research related to global climate change. in all cases, the directors must ensure that their external appointments do not involve excessive time commitment or cause a conflict of interest. the indemnity would not provide any coverage where a director is proved to have acted fraudulently or with willful misconduct. 76 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) element of remuneration how it supports the company’s short and long-term strategic objectives operation opportunity performance metrics benefits the committee’s intention is to provide a benefits package in line with us employment market practice. an executive director’s cash incentive bonus award is considered by the committee upon completion of each financial year. 78 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) element of remuneration how it supports the company’s short and long-term strategic objectives operation opportunity performance metrics pension it is the committee’s intention to provide pension benefits in line with us employment market practice. 80 annual report and accounts 2017 directors’ remuneration report (continued) element of remuneration how it supports the company’s short and long-term strategic objectives operation opportunity performance metrics allied minds phantom plan the committee’s intention is to reward participants for a successful subsidiary company liquidity event. the committee may in its discretion determine that there are exceptional circumstances justifying vesting to a greater or lesser extent. an executive director’s cash incentive bonus award is considered by the remuneration committee upon completion of each financial year. the committee has not set a timeframe during which executive officers are required to accumulate their share ownership level. the maximum opportunity for each executive director in 2018 will remain constant and may be up to 225% of base salary. ms. smith has a service contract that commenced on 26 may 2017 and shall continue until terminated by either of allied minds or the executive director. if the executive director’s employment is terminated by allied minds for “cause”, she shall only be entitled to amounts that are accrued or owing but not yet paid and reimbursement of any properly incurred business expenses but excluding any bonus payments or other compensation provided pursuant to allied minds’ incentive compensation plan (such amounts, the “standard benefit”). the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. other investments comprise fixed income debt securities, including government agency and corporate bonds, are stated at amortised cost less impairment. intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date. as at 31 december 2017, the group’s future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases amounted to 8.0 million, on an undiscounted basis (see note 21). those currently include our top six subsidiaries, namely bridgesat, federated wireless, hawkeye 360 , precision biopsy, scifluor life sciences, and spin transfer technologies. each ordinary share is entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by the company’s board of directors. should this next lead optimisation phase prove successful, bristol-myers squibb has the right to acquire allied minds’ interest in abls ii at a pre-determined multiple of invested capital. the preferred shares are entitled to a vote with holders of common stock on an as converted basis. • costs and capital expenditures are estimated for each phase of development based on the companies’ information or according to industry standards. (25) taxation amounts recognised in profit or loss no current income tax expense was recorded for the years ended 31 december 2017 and 2016 due to accumulated losses.