there is clearly a global need for new anti-infective drugs that are effective and reduce the growing danger of antimicrobial resistance (“amr”). together with the board, we are all committed to building a valuable drug development company. chairman’s statement destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 02 in its infancy, the company predominantly carried out contract research for large pharmaceutical companies, including novartis. 2017 additional £3 million investment from cms and signing of cms collaboration 2017 ipo raises £15.3 million our history 2016 completion of successful xf-73 study in us demonstrates significant nasal decolonisation 2015 qidp awarded by fda to lead asset xf-73 to prevent post-surgical infections 2010 us department of defense burns study highlights potential in dermal infections 2008 phase 1 study demonstrates efficacy of xf-73 in killing bacteria in volunteers 2003 breakthrough microbiology study shows xf potential 1997 – 2003 trading as contract research consultancy and performing in-house research 1997 founded financial statements governance strategic report destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 03 00:03  billion rewards and incentives to drive new drugs proposed 100 trillion global cost of resistance and 10 million lives by 2050 who names antibiotic resistance as a top global concern antibiotic resistant bacteria pose a threat to public health and are of serious concern to the world health organization (“who”). with an increasing number of hospital-based medical procedures being carried out across the world, there is a specific need for improved patient care regarding hospital infections. the review on antimicrobial resistance chaired by lord jim o’neill december 2014 tackling drug-resistant infections globally: final report and recommendations the review on antimicrobial resistance chaired by jim o’neill may 2016 financial statements governance strategic report destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 05 infections caused by antibiotic resistant strains of bacteria continue to rise at an alarming rate and are of serious concern to the who. independent review on antimicrobial resistance, may 2016 predicts ten million deaths and 100 trillion cost of amr globally by 2050 if not addressed. recommends global fund to drive r&d and 1 billion market entry rewards for new drugs. funding destiny pharma has a track record of raising funds in both private and public markets. destiny pharma has already proven it can develop intellectual property, identify lead candidates and bring selected compounds through early testing to be ready for late stage phase 2b clinical trials. destiny pharma is well connected with expert groups across the world and will continue to explore such opportunities. a longer duration of illness and treatment, often in hospitals, increases health care costs as well as the economic burden on families and societies.” “ a n t i m ic r o b i a l r e s i s ta n ce jeopardizes health care gains to society: the achievements of modern medicine are put at risk by antimicrobial resistance. the xf drugs can therefore potentially operate within existing antibiotic markets and may also be able to open new preventative and therapeutic drug markets that are closed to, or restricted for, traditional antibiotics because of the existence and/or threat of amr. qidp status identifies xf-73 as a drug that is intended to treat serious or life-threatening infections, including those caused by antibiotic resistant pathogens. estimated hospital staphylococcus aureus assay detection threshold sq = 1 line mean sq score (log approx) placebo 3.1 2.3 day 0 day 1 day 6 2%, 2mg xf-73 1.7 3.0 0.8 0.5 source: data from latest us clinical trial dmid 11 0007. press release 5 september 2016. staphylococcus aureus load after 0, 1 and 5 days’ dosing financial statements governance strategic report destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 13 the medical need to combat surgical infections is significant patient carriage of staphylococcus aureus strains, including mrsa, is recognised as a growing problem and the testing of patients entering hospital for surgery is widespread in many countries, including the us. this market has a potential patient population of over eight million people in the us alone. in europe, similar guidelines exist recommending decolonisation of staphylococcus aureus positive patients prior to certain surgeries. the antibiotic, mupirocin, is often used off-label in the us for these applications, although it has two key disadvantages in that it is slow acting, requiring five days of dosing, and staphylococcal resistance to mupirocin can develop rapidly and become widespread. it is therefore apparent that there has been a move from screening and treatment of just mrsa carriage in patient populations to also now include all staphylococcus aureus strains (mrsa and mssa), an approximate five to tenfold increase in the number of patients who can benefit. destiny pharma believes that there is significant demand for the xf-73 product and have identified the following additional drivers for adoption: • current practice guidelines have identified patient populations that can benefit while highlighting that antibiotic resistance as an issue with current products; • from 2017, us general, acute-care and short-term hospitals with the highest mrsa infections will have 1% of their medicare reimbursements withheld; • on 20 september 2016, the un general assembly called for new drugs to tackle antibiotic resistance; • us hospital administrators are keen to reduce infection to ensure high ratings in rankings tables; • xf-73, having qidp approval, benefits from five years of extra us market exclusivity; • xf-73 could be the first drug approved into a new us indication with first to market advantages; and • xf-73 has both qidp and fast track regulatory status in the us. in this aspect, xf-73 can be viewed as a preventative pharmaceutical more akin to vaccines than antibiotics. ceo’s operational and strategic review continued exciting earlier pipeline of anti-infective programmes several additional projects have been identified for the xf platform destiny pharma plans in the next two years to develop two additional products from its pipeline towards clinical development, and to conduct earlier stage research work in respect of biofilm action. vap is a subset of hap that occurs in mechanically ventilated patients more than 48 hours after tracheal intubation. there are over 1.7 million mechanically ventilated patients in the us each year who could benefit from preventative treatment. destiny pharma will also establish a number of discovery stage research programmes through collaborations and where possible seek non-dilutive funding support. concurrently, destiny pharma will continue to apply for non-dilutive funding grants when suitable structures are available. the virtual business model maintains a low overhead base which allows some flexibility in managing spending commitments. destiny pharma may not be able to enter into partnering relationships for the commercialisation of its drug pipeline assets. key risks are monitored by senior management on an ongoing basis and the risk register is reviewed regularly at board meetings. c destiny pharma conducts commercial market analysis to ensure that development activities are directed towards viable markets. destiny pharma also has a network of key opinion leaders who assist with this ongoing review. dependence on key personnel, the loss of whom through departure, ill health or death, may cause delays in delivering company strategy. the committee’s scope extends to all remuneration of directors including bonus and share options. he is currently chairman of bba aviation, meggitt plc and the uk’s business growth fund. dr love was a founding member of the beam alliance, an eu sme group focused on promoting antimicrobial drug development. in 1997, mr clark joined cenes pharmaceuticals plc, a venture capital backed private uk biotech company. in addition, he was a non-executive director of china medstar, an aim-listed medical device company. from 2007 until 2015, mr morgan was a non-executive director of oncimmune limited, a cancer diagnostics company which floated on aim in 2016. mr morgan has advised many of the world’s top pharmaceutical companies including amgen, bayer, gsk, novartis, novo nordisk, pfizer and roche as well as quintiles, the world’s largest clinical research organisation. lady lesley rudd is the beneficial owner of a further 13,000 ordinary shares registered to rock (nominees) limited. where considered appropriate performance materiality may be reduced to a lower level, such as, for related party transactions and directors’ remuneration. errors below that threshold would also be reported to it if, in our opinion as auditor, disclosure was required on qualitative grounds. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. fair value is considered to be the original invoice amount, discounted where material, for short-term receivables and payables. long-term receivables and payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. going concern the company has not yet recorded any revenues and funds its operations through periodic capital issues. management prepares detailed working capital forecasts which are reviewed by the board on a regular basis. in common with all other businesses, the company is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. for banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with minimum rating a-/a3 or equivalent are accepted. there are no material adjustments made by the company in restating its uk gaap statement of financial position as at 1 january 2016 and its previously published uk gaap financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 december 2016. 46 destiny pharma plc annual report and financial statements 2017 aim the market of that name operated by the london stock exchange amr antimicrobial resistance ashp american society of hospital pharmacists barda biomedical advanced research and development authority carb-x a biopharmaceutical accelerator created as a partnership between a number of governmental and non-governmental organisations, to spur product development in the anti-bacterial field.