the company considers this a useful additional measure to help understand underlying factors driving revenue in terms of volumes sold and realised prices. we seek to create value for stakeholders across precious metal cycles, focusing on high- potential silver and gold projects that can be developed into low cost, world-class mines. for our markets see pages 14-17 for the financial review see pages 104-115 consistent dividend policy fresnillo plc’s dividend policy is closely aligned with our focus on creating value through growth and returns, and is based on paying out 33-50% of profit after tax each year, with certain adjustments made to exclude non-cash effects in the income statement. we have taken a number of corrective steps to address these issues, including: strengthening our operational leadership team; improving contractor efficiency; and eliminating bottlenecks caused by inefficient working practices. contractor staff do not always display a consistent focus on safety and lack sufficient training due to frequent rotation of personnel. while volatility in exchange rates or precious metals prices may present short-term challenges, we anticipate further growth and returns over the longer term. q&a with the chief executive consistent strategy, consistent performance key points on track to deliver commitments made at time of ipo new objectives due to be announced in summer 2018 silver production up 16.6%, gold production down 2.6% improved performance at fresnillo phase ii at san julián commissioned as planned silver resources up by 6.9%, gold resources remained stable silver reserves down by 5.4%, gold reserves up by 22.7% improvement in health and safety a challenging year ahead but we face the future with confidence i am delighted to report that 2017 was another good year for fresnillo. in last year’s report i referred to a comprehensive review of how it can be the springboard for improved efficiency. we have identified significant opportunities at pilarica and expect this to become our first operational mine outside mexico in the medium term. in conclusion, i would like to thank our people, communities, suppliers, clients and shareholders for their continued support during the last year . as existing mines move towards the end of their lives, miners will increasingly rely on lower grade deposits or those with more complex metallurgy. the opportunity for fresnillo our strategy has always been to invest across all price cycles, while maintaining a strong balance sheet. deliver profitable growth by advancing new projects 2 • san julián: commission flotation plant to process ore from the disseminated body (phase ii) in 2q 2017. phase i, a leaching plant, was commissioned in 2016, with phase ii, a flotation plant, following in 2017. roberto díaz, chief operating officer 28 fresnillo plc annual report and accounts 2017 28 fresnillo plc annual report and accounts 2017 operate kpis 3 key performance indicators production sum of ounces produced, plus ounces accrued through the silverstream contract. earnings per share excluding post-tax silverstream revaluation effects us/share 0.653 0.453 0.069 0.074 0.381 1 3 1 4 1 5 1 6 1 7 0.653 higher profits divided across an unchanged weighted average number of shares in issue. – partnering with ngos in these four pillars of social investment: education (ibby, innovec & first robotics), water (captar ac), health (national university foundation) and capacity building (proempleo). these include: • a permanent effort to reinforce our safety culture, comprising the following programmes: ‘rules that save lives’, ‘operational discipline’ and ‘behavioural change’, supported by comprehensive accident investigation. certain groups may also attempt to exploit vulnerabilities created by the industry’s heavy reliance on operational automated systems and it 1 . we do this by providing a healthy, safe, productive and team-oriented working environment that not only encourages our people to fulfil their potential but also supports process improvements. this is the most advanced mine in our portfolio, with leading edge technology and a highly skilled workforce delivering impressive efficiencies, including above-capacity processing. 3. safety incident that impacts the physical integrity of employees/ collaborators, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling rock, insect bites, falls, etc. 3. safety incident that impacts the physical integrity of employees/ collaborators, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling rock, insect bites, falls, etc. 9. safety incident that impacts the physical integrity of employees/ collaborators, including: explosion, trapping, electrocution, being struck by falling rock, insect bites, falls, etc. our team of geologists have harnessed these advantages, while leveraging their own local and regional knowledge, in order to maximise the district’s long-term potential. based on a 2x2 strategy matrix, we advance these goals as part of our core business processes, or indirectly through collaboration and leverage. however, while management can establish and promote safety-led processes, the everyday behaviour of workers themselves remains a key factor in reducing incidents. recognising that women are under-represented in our workforce (see diversity below), we implement rules for the compensation of non-unionised employees based on gender-independent salary ranges. penmont certification explorations san julián fresnillo saucito ciénega herradura noche buena iso 14001 framework and criteria for an effective environmental management system. • development: our stakeholder relationships deepen in this phase of the cycle, as we build trust through activities including local hiring, contracts and social investment. key activities: • conduct social baseline studies at our development projects in order to build greater understanding of local culture and traditions. we hedged a portion of our by-product lead and zinc production but, contrary to previous years, this did not have an effect on revenue. during his career, mr bordes has held both senior executive management roles and board responsibilities with companies spanning a number of different sectors, particularly within mexico. it is proposed that ms georgina kessel will be appointed as an independent non-executive director, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 agm. there is a risk that related party relationships could be taken advantage of to manipulate earnings or otherwise distort our financial position. information regarding this whistleblowing mechanism is widely circulated with access available via our website in the ethics and culture/code of conduct section. the salary payable under mr alvídrez’ service agreement is mx930,154 per month, which excludes payments for holidays, company-paid savings contributions and other cash benefits. (iii) poor executive response to adverse health, safety or environmental performance during the year, in which case a downward adjustment would be considered. the other members of senior management group below board level are employed by servicios administrativos fresnillo s.a. de c.v., which pays annual ptu payments. we consider that both management’s long term silver price and discount rate assumptions are at the lower end of respective ranges considered appropriate by ey valuation specialists. key external assumptions used in management’s estimate of the recoverable values of mining assets • working with our valuation specialists we have assessed management’s assumptions relating to future metals prices and discount rates, comparing these to market data and also for consistency with other estimates used in the financial statements. for certain procedures, in particular areas involving significant judgement and heightened audit risk, we performed work ourselves with support where required from the component team. • qualifying assets (note 2(e)): all interest-bearing loans are held by the parent company and were not obtained for any specific asset’s acquisition, construction, or production. after initial measurement, such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. 203 fresnillo plc annual report and accounts 2017 fresnillo today strategic report corporate governance financial statements seniority premium for voluntary separation this unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service. notes to the parent company financial statements 249 fresnillo plc annual report and accounts 2017 fresnillo today strategic report corporate governance financial statements impairment ifrs 9 requires the company to now use an expected credit loss model for its trade receivables measured at amortised cost, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis. after initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. the following tables provide relevant information in respect of each impaired subsidiary: year ended 31 december 2017 current year impairment reversal us thousand cumulative impairment us thousand recoverable amount us thousands discount rate minera fresnillo, s.a. de c.v. (94,747) – 4,440,269 post-tax 5.13% minera mexicana la ciénega, s.a. de c.v. – 360,791 571,439 post-tax 5.13% exploraciones mineras parreña, s.a. de c.v. (8,042) 75,663 146,670 post-tax 5.02% (102,789) 436,454 in determining fvlcd it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate future cash flows including reserves and resources volumes and related production profile, price assumptions, cost estimates and discount rate. 2 non-current portion corresponds to gold option contracts that mature in a period over one year from the reporting date until 30 december 2019. srk has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine. investors should specifically consider the factors identified in this document which could cause actual results to differ before making an investment decision.