the marketing industry has been through a period of substantial change during this time, bringing with it extraordinary complexity. we acquired additional skills to address some of the emerging opportunities, and our marketing performance optimisation segment was created. there have also been some important new hires of senior executives, individuals with both operational and industry-based skills who will help us capitalise on our position in the marketplace. this means ensuring that marketers work with their partners to choose the level of transparency which is right for them. it is encouraging to hear marc pritchard, in his recent address at isba, put increased focus on data and analytics, but change will take time in an industry obsessed with shiny new objects often at the expense of employing rigour to drive real business impact. rob succeeds michael higgins who will retire after 12 years as chairman of ebiquity, following the agm on 9 may. mike campbell head of international effectiveness “ marketers are rewarded by the c-suite for delivering real and tangible roi. this is supported by specialist insight, market, and earned media research experts who combine automated analytics with native- language human analysis. in this way, we empower our clients to take rightful ownership of their digital marketing strategy, technology, data, and media spend. it is through talents like these that we will achieve our objective of becoming the world’s leading marketing analytics consultancy. this programme was started in q4 2016 by the recruitment of new team members whose purpose is to drive operational efficiency and synergies across practices. our media practice in australia has developed an innovative methodology to benchmark and analyse online video advertising performance. with advertisers following audiences who are shifting their viewing habits from broadcast tv towards online video, this methodology enables us to assess performance of online video advertising per se, and compared to the cost and efficiency of traditional tv advertising. this platform is designed to help agencies upload our advertiser clients’ media data consistently, efficiently, and securely. our leaders have spoken at more industry events than ever, and they are now regularly contacted for comment. our research is now quoted in the analyst reports commentating on marketing, including liberum and bank of america. they have also provided practical solutions and steps that our members can take to help get ahead of these challenges and improve their marketing effectiveness.” strategic report corporate governance financial statements 21 annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2017 ebiquity plc strategic report our strategy for growth continued 5. performance the performance of ebiquity in 2017 is summarised in more detail in the ceo review. there is a risk of an industry-wide talent shortage for data scientists in particular as demand by clients, agencies, internet platforms and publishers increases. there is a risk of an industry-wide talent shortage for data scientists in particular as demand by clients, agencies, internet platforms and publishers increases. ebiquity approach we conducted a comprehensive assessment of mazda’s media investment, price discounts, new car releases, competitor activity, and pr activations along the whole purchase lifecycle. and as subway is a franchised operation, the team needed to address franchisee questions about what central marketing delivered through social. our effectiveness team found that tv and radio drove earned media coverage, while out-of-home had minimal impact. it’s important that everyone relevant in an advertiser business – across multiple functions and levels of responsibility – is involved. everyone now has far more confidence to ask the right questions, especially around value for money on digital. outcomes the britvic marketing and insight team has established a new working framework with its media agency. p&l overview commentary on segmental revenues are set out within the chief executive officer’s report. experience morag spent more than 20 years in ad agencies as a tv buyer, planner and account director. an economics graduate from cambridge university, richard subsequently qualified as a chartered accountant with price waterhouse (now pwc) in london. after running ee for a further year he left to pursue private equity opportunities and non-executive roles. andrew noble (chief financial officer) is responsible for the group’s worldwide functions in finance, treasury and taxation. none of these service agreements entitles a director to receive more than six months’ notice terminating his/her employment. in addition, there were a small number of meetings convened on short notice to consider ad hoc matters. the company secretary attends all board meetings and is available to advise on any corporate governance issues which may arise. non-audit fees of approximately £46,000 were paid to pwc during the year in connection with group restructuring activities. amortisation commences when the asset is available for use and useful lives range from one to five years. depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful economic lives. trade and other payables are initially recognised at their nominal value which is usually the original invoiced amount. actual results may significantly differ from those estimates often as a result of the need to make assumptions about matters which are uncertain. directors are eligible for cash bonuses as a percentage of base salary, dependent on individual and company performance against established financial targets. as such, a composite guarantee has been given by all significant subsidiary companies in the uk, us and germany. on 12 may 2010, 4,200,000 options with an exercise price of 35p each were awarded under the eip to two directors. trade receivables the group operates in an industry where most of its customers are reputable and well-established multinational or large national businesses. customers with any overdue debts are contacted for payment and progress is tracked on a credit control report. based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk. this has been treated as a non-adjusting event since the advertising intelligence business was not available for sale in its present condition, nor was a transaction highly probable, as of 31 december 2017. this determination was made based on the status of the potential sale as of 31 december 2017, with no agreement reached, legal terms not finalised and several external regulatory and other approvals not having been cleared. other matter we have reported separately on the group financial statements of ebiquity plc for the year ended 31 december 2017. richard porter (senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of pricewaterhousecoopers llp chartered accountants and statutory auditors london 21 march 2018 strategic report corporate governance financial statements 97 annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2017 ebiquity plc financial statements company statement of financial position as at 31 december 2017 31 december 31 december 2017 2016 note £’000 £’000 fixed assets intangible assets 6 1,239 990 property, plant and equipment 7 — 21 investments in subsidiaries 8 74,890 74,890 total fixed assets 76,129 75,901 current assets trade and other receivables 9 26,558 15,290 cash at bank and in hand 178 — total current assets 26,736 15,290 creditors: amounts falling due within one year 10 (47,745) (35,599) net current liabilities (21,009) (20,309) total assets less current liabilities 55,120 55,592 creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 11 (32,000) (30,205) net assets 23,120 25,387 equity ordinary shares 12 19,549 19,300 share premium 13 21 — other reserves 13 (733) (99) retained earnings 13 4,283 6,186 total shareholders’ funds 23,120 25,387 the company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under section 408 of the companies act 2006 not to present its own income statement in these financial statements. trade and other payables are initially recognised at their nominal value which is usually the original invoiced amount. provisions provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle that obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. as such, a composite guarantee has been given by all significant subsidiary companies in the uk, us and germany. company registration registered office citypoint one ropemaker street london ec2y 9aw company number 03967525 108 ebiquity plc annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 december 2017 ana association of national advertisers aor agency of record apac asia pacific apms alternative performance measures cagr compound annual growth rate capital the cancellation of reduction the share premium account cgus cash-generating units cma competition and markets authority the company ebiquity plc constant calculated by taking current year currency denominated results restated at last year’s foreign exchange rates ebit earnings before interest and tax ebitda earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation ebt employee benefit trust eip executive incentive plan emi scheme enterprise management incentive scheme eps earnings per share esop executive share option plan fmc fairbrother marsh company limited frs 101 financial reporting standard 101 ‘reduced disclosure framework’ the group ebiquity plc and its subsidiaries highlighted highlighted items comprise non-cash items charges and non-recurring items which are highlighted in the income statement because separate disclosure is considered relevant in understanding the underlying performance of the business iasb international accounting standards board ifrs international financial reporting standards ipa institute of practitioners in advertising isas international standards on auditing isba incorporated society of british advertisers kpis key performance indicators libor london interbank offered rate like‑for‑like prior year results are adjusted to include the results of recent acquisitions as if they had been owned for the same period in the prior year lti long-term incentive mi market intelligence mpo marketing performance optimisation mvm media value measurement net debt long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents pwc pricewaterhousecoopers llp qca code quoted companies alliance – corporate governance code for small and mid-size quoted companies 2013 rbs royal bank of scotland rcf revolving credit facility stratigent stratigent llc tsr total shareholder returns ucsop unapproved company share option plan underlying underlying performance refers performance to the results of operations before highlighted items wfa world federation of advertisers glossary designed and produced by www.lyonsbennett.com printed on splendorgel extra white, an fsc® mixed sources paper manufactured using pulp from well managed forests at a mill accredited with emas and iso 14001 environmental standards.