these development candidates are based on approved molecules, thereby reducing their risk profile, and the company plans to initiate discussions with a number of potential partners. with continuing robust sales growth, a portfolio of exciting products and expanding commercial presence, we are highly positive about the coming year. the company uses a range of external experts to deliver support activities, including manufacturing, contract research and commercialisation in territories beyond circassia’s direct sales presence. in parallel, our market access team extended niox ® coverage to an additional nine million americans and at the beginning of 2018 medicare increased its feno testing reimbursement rate. circassia made significant progress during the past year, continuing its transition into a commercial specialty pharmaceutical business focused on respiratory disease. circassia made significant progress during the past year, continuing its transition into a commercial specialty pharmaceutical business focused on respiratory disease. under our tudorza ® profit share arrangement we have responsibility for the product’s promotion while astrazeneca manages manufacturing, supply, regulatory and pharmacovigilance activities. our 200-strong sales force is now supported by a team of over 50, including marketing, analytics, market access, training and medical affairs experts. the results demonstrate that alongside background therapy tudorza ® is effective at reducing exacerbation rates in patients with cardiovascular disease or risk factors. in the coming weeks, we plan to increase our beijing-based team, which currently manages local distributors, and establish a commercial ‘back office’. later in the year we intend to recruit a modest sales force, which will complement our existing distributor base. — our combination formulation containing fluticasone propionate and the laba salmeterol xinafoate targets direct substitution of gsk’s seretide ® pmdi. the most advanced of these, a combination lama / laba, incorporates mesh nebulisation technology in-licensed from medical innovation company, philips respiratory drug delivery. this next generation hand-held nebuliser is battery powered, easy-to-clean, bluetooth enabled and features a breath actuation algorithm to improve usability. this strategy is designed to complete our transition into a fully commercially-focused specialty pharmaceutical business, with rapidly growing revenues, strong commercial platform and expanding product portfolio. with a full year’s contribution from our tudorza ® collaboration and rapidly growing niox ® sales we have significant growth potential ‘locked in’. it also includes the flixotide ® pmdi substitute (eu rights) and a partnered particle-engineered version of salmeterol xinafoate which are no longer being pursued. nonetheless, it still actively seeks to make energy savings in a fashion which is environmentally responsible and cost effective. the group may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement from third party payers such as private health insurers and government health authorities is restricted or not available because for example it proves difficult to build a strong enough economic case based on the burden of illness and population impact. in addition, the group will seek, through business development activity, to identify opportunities which would expand and diversify its portfolio. if these actions are successful then it would have to pay substantial damages and potentially remove its products from the market. 6 jo le couilliard independent non-executive director jo le couilliard was appointed to the board as an independent non-executive director on 8 february 2018. she was most recently senior vice president, global commercial transformation at gsk and brings significant commercial and international pharmaceutical industry experience to circassia. until november 2017 he was chief executive officer of touchstone innovations plc, having joined as chief investment officer in 2006. from 2003 to 2006, he held roles at the growth equity and venture capital firm scottish equity partners llp , and prior to this spent 16 years at the international venture capital company 3i group plc, latterly as a director in its uk technology group. in addition, dr jean-jacques garaud and mr marvin samson have announced their intention not to stand for re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting. dr jean-jacques garaud and marvin samson have indicated that they do not intend to stand for re-election at the company’s 2018 annual general meeting. of the five non-executive directors, it is anticipated that four will be independent, namely lota zoth, jo le couilliard, sharon curran, and dr heribert staudinger. in addition, he has served on the board for more than nine years, and so is not considered independent due to length of service. regular reviews take place to ensure standards are maintained and the company is fully prepared for a regulatory inspection. under the direction of this committee an insider list is maintained recording employees and external parties who may have access to inside information. dr tim corn did not stand for re-election at the 2017 annual general meeting, and his position was taken, from 26 may 2017 , by mr marvin samson. also, on 26 may 2017 dr jean-jacques garaud resigned from the committee and his position was taken up by ms lota zoth. in addition, the company operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors and senior vice presidents to further increase alignment with shareholders. in addition, the contractual arrangements have been reviewed to ensure that these are in-line with current market and best practice. salaries are periodically benchmarked against a relevant peer group of uk listed companies with similar market capitalisation and operations. if an executive director is based outside the uk additional benefits and assistance with relocation may be provided which reflect local market norms or legislation. performance metrics awards are currently subject to a combination of relative total shareholder return (tsr) and clinical progression timelines for executive directors. executive directors will be required to retain half of any post-tax awards which vest under long-term incentive plans, until the share ownership guideline has been satisfied. name position date of joining steven harris chief executive officer 19 may 2006 rod hafner senior vp of r&d 1 march 2007 julien cotta chief financial officer 5 january 2012 the contractual arrangements for each executive director have been reviewed in order to ensure that these are in-line with market and best practice. 100% complete 2b duaklir phase iii study meets co- primary endpoints with acceptable difference in fine particle dose between treatment arms. the difference in awards arises because a greater weighting of options was awarded under criterion 1 to more senior employees. we also obtained management’s sensitivity analysis and performed our own sensitivities reflecting what we believed to be a range of reasonably individually possible alternative outcomes over the forecast cash flows and discount rates, the results of which did not indicate an impairment to goodwill or other intangible assets on a cgu basis. estimates are made in relation to the cash flow forecasts, probability factors and discount rates used for this purpose. until such an asset is fully developed, the costs are capitalised and classified within intangibles assets as ‘software in development’. other employee benefits the expected cost of compensated short-term absence (e.g. holidays) is recognised when employees render services that increase their entitlement. an impairment charge of £37 .0 million in respiratory segment relates to three ipr&d intangible assets, see note 16 for further detail. an r&d tax credit of £10.2 million related to this expenditure is included in the taxation line for non-underlying items. a remaining useful life of 20 years was determined at acquisition and amortisation will commence when the products underpinned by this technology become available for commercial use. this transfer was accounted for at a book value of £42.1 million on 1 september 2017 , with no gain or loss in either entity. (i) options granted under the psp scheme have a fixed exercise price and are subject to additional vesting performance conditions. these shares are subject to certain restrictions on transfer and forfeiture, as set out in the restricted share agreement.