2. focus investment on delivering differentiated solutions in high growth segments, which allow us to capture a premium price and create real value for our shareholders. 1. performance materials the division creates industry-leading solutions which protect electronics by conducting harmful waste energy streams (e.g. heat and electrical noise) safely away from devices. we offer a complete set of products that integrate smart devices into the vehicle, including wireless charging systems, usb hubs and compensers. we are a global organisation 16 we operate in 16 countries 10,302 average number of worldwide employees key our global locations 05 overview strategic report governance financial statements additional information the markets we serve and the drivers of growth segment underlying operating proﬁt by division 3 2 1 1: pm £47.0m 2: cvs £15.9m 3: wts £19.8m market split 2017 % 1: 15% 2: 10% 3: 20% 4: 41% 5: 3% 6: 11% 5 4 1 2 3 6 mobile devices connected industry telecom/computing connected transport connected medical other revenue by division 3 2 1 1: pm £448.3m 2: cvs £318.6m 3: wts £169.7m financial: a strong balance sheet and signiﬁcant liquidity headroom ensures the group can invest in opportunities for long-term sustainable growth. business model in action strategy formation and planning our industry insight across multiple markets holds the key to solving complex problems. if the end market is more fragmented, we focus on delivering platform products that can be used across a broad range of customers, with some personalisation. 12 laird plc annual report & financial statements 2017 chairman’s statement the business now has much more robust foundations and is better placed to take advantage of future opportunities. this year we have made progress across all three divisions, as a result of the actions taken to improve performance. in addition to the operational improvements, i have strengthened laird’s executive team signiﬁcantly and embedded a new, simpliﬁed divisional structure. 14 laird plc annual report & financial statements 2017 chief executive’s review our goal is to deliver long-term, sustainable revenue and earnings growth. outlook laird made signiﬁcant progress and delivered a much improved performance this year, underpinned by our resolute focus on operational excellence. 2. focus investment on delivering differentiated solutions in high growth segments, which allow us to capture a premium price and create real value for our shareholders. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 times 10.2 7.0 11.4 9.7 10.2 7. return on capital employed 10.8% +1.3% (2016: 9.5%) deﬁnition: underlying operating proﬁt divided by average equity attributable to owners of the parent company and net debt. it’s an approach that works well for both parties – our sales with continental have trebled in the last three years and at any time we will have around 20 different projects underway together.” one such project has involved pm producing innovative electromagnetic interference (emi) shielding for a network control module that manages a car’s engine and some safety systems. “this project has been an excellent demonstration of partnership in action – thanks to its success, pm now supplies shields to more than 10 european locations of continental.” 18 laird plc annual report & financial statements 2017 as vehicles become more automated and the systems they rely on increase in technical complexity, successful product development can sometimes be based on qualities that are decidedly less high tech – old fashioned human interaction and teamwork, for example. liberec the division creates industry-leading solutions which protect electronics by conducting harmful waste energy streams (e.g. heat and electrical noise) safely away from important components within devices. this, combined with customer obsessed deployment across our huge portfolio of application solutions, has been a critical contributor to the improved performance. we offer a complete set of products that integrate smart devices into the vehicle, including wireless charging systems, usb hubs and compensers. a new development by our wireless and thermal systems (wts) division has the potential to drastically reduce those industrial accidents. our thermal segment is diversifying beyond its medical core into new markets, where heat loads and demand for active cooling systems are accelerating. wts is leveraging its product and service portfolio to bring tangible solutions for these enterprise internet of things (eiot) challenges. we measure our progress by monitoring non-ﬁnancial key performance indicators (kpis) which are detailed on pages 30 to 35 within this section. committed to operating responsibly 0.26 +0.04% (2016: 0.22) kpi reportable accidents (per 100 employees annualised) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 0.22 0.18 0.21 0.21 0.26 kpi kwh/£1m revenue 105,117 –9,560 (2016: 114,677) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2017 114,677 127,677 127,661 140,089 105,117 we have invested many resources in crafting a strong leadership team which can support our employees in their personal and professional growth and focus on improving our operations to underpin long-term, sustainable growth for the company. the group’s policy is to manage a conservative balance sheet gearing position, with appropriate levels of debt for our business risk. these operations, which are expected to be sold within 12 months, have been classiﬁed as a disposal group held for sale and presented separately in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position. finance includes risks associated with client debt obligations, adequacy of cash resources, interest rate ﬂuctuations, foreign currency transactions, ﬁnancial accounting and disclosure. 2. focus investment on delivering differentiated solutions in high growth segments, which allow us to capture a premium price and create real value for our shareholders. recent political events in the united states, europe and elsewhere have signalled increasing vocal support for a move toward protectionist international trade policies. major business interruption incidents such as natural catastrophes, or a site ﬁre, can have an immediate and enduring operational impact. he was most recently chief financial officer of morgan advanced materials plc from 2006 until 2016, serving as interim chief executive in 2015. he was previously group finance operations manager for london international group plc and has held a number of senior positions at virgin retail europe limited, including european finance manager. he was most recently chief financial officer of morgan advanced materials plc from 2006 until 2016, serving as interim chief executive in 2015. he was previously group finance operations manager for london international group plc and has held a number of senior positions at virgin retail europe limited, including european finance manager. two additional ad- hoc meetings were held on short notice to discuss new business proposals for which board approval was required under the company’s delegated authorities. in addition, as part of the annual performance review, each director is asked about their individual training needs so that this can be factored into forthcoming programmes. these announcements also appear on the company’s website, along with other press releases, presentations, webcasts, informative videos and business case studies. while a programme of co-ordinated activity is followed throughout the year, where appropriate we also respond to ad-hoc requests for meetings. this was strongly linked to laird achieving a stretching underlying proﬁt before tax target and the executive directors meeting key strategic goals. further details are set out on page 88 of this report and i would like to thank shareholders for their strong support. it should be noted that both executive directors are recent appointments and have not yet had the opportunity of building up their shareholdings. if a contract is to be terminated, the committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case. in 2017 salary increases for management level employees ranged from zero to 15.5 % depending on several factors, including the region where they work and individual performance. loss of a key customer part way through 2018 leading to materially lower group revenue and proﬁt over the forecast period; scenario 2 – risk considered: protectionism/trade war. for those entities where no component auditor was engaged, we undertook review procedures over the balances to identify any unusual transactions or indicators of misstatement. intangible assets arising in this manner are amortised over their useful economic lives, from the product launch date, which is typically around four years. these operations, which are expected to be sold within 12 months, have been classiﬁed as a disposal group held for sale and presented separately in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position. included in the goodwill recognised above are certain assets that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature. dividends are not payable on shares prior to vesting and this is taken into account in calculating the fair value. provisions are made when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to recover balances in full. deferred tax assets have not been recognised on capital losses of £3.6m (2016: £3.6m) where it is unlikely that future relief would be available at the balance sheet date. box 1225 | apia | samoa dormant company tianjin laird technologies limited c3 & c4 hongtai industry park | no 87 taifeng road | teda tianjin, 300457 | china performance materials warth international holdings limited* 100 pall mall | london | sw1y 5nq | united kingdom dormant company in jurisdictions in which we operate where share classes are not deﬁned, for the purpose of disclosure we have classiﬁed these holdings as ordinary shares. 176 laird plc annual report & financial statements 2017 shareholder information cagr compound annual growth rate cvs connected vehicle solutions dtrs disclosure and transparency rules eiot enterprise internet of things emi electromagnetic interference iec international electrochemical commission listing rules the listing rules of the london stock exchange, as issued by the financial conduct authority lte long-term evolution oem original equipment manufacturer pm performance materials rf radio frequency rgsc risk and governance steering group wi-fi wireless fidelity wts wireless and thermal systems 4g/5g fourth/fifth generation of mobile telecommunications technology this report is printed on papers made from forest stewardship council approved papers.