monitoring vast, crowded facilities in low-light conditions where massive amounts of cash constantly changes hands creates a distinctive and challenging surveillance environment for our clients. our commercial and public sector customers require sophisticated yet user-friendly solutions to protect critical infrastructure, often in large scale, operationally difficult environments, which present great technical complexity. consistent with our growth strategy, the board has authorised a significant increase in research & development expense to capitalise on those opportunities. this is an organisation with a culture of high expectations for commitment and performance, especially in delivering on our promises to customers. throughout its 30-year history, synectics has consistently demonstrated the combination of deep technical capability and practical, expertise-based sales approach needed to benefit from such opportunities. we see an opportunity to provide sophisticated end users with real improvements in the capability, breadth and cost-effectiveness of their security systems. our strategy has always been to focus on a limited number of specific industry verticals for which security, surveillance, and control systems are absolutely critical, organisations where often the stakes could not be higher. pre-emption, too, is another strong theme as our clients assess the potential applications of artificial intelligence for anticipating threats and responding proactively. for example, hardware costs will continue to fall over time, as even the most specialist equipment benefits from new technologies and efficiencies. the industry itself is in transition and we are successfully navigating our way through what continues to be an extremely tough market. consequently, they demand solutions that are rigorously proven under these circumstances, and which also satisfy the constantly changing requirements of compliance legislation. darren alder, synectics’ divisional director for oil & gas, says: “to suggest it has been a challenging few years for the oil & gas industry would be an understatement, yet during this time we have continued to secure key contracts by offering tailored end-to-end solutions which meet precise needs, based upon our specialist technology. casino operators value synectics for our ability to deliver ultra-reliable, scalable, end-to-end solutions, backed up by proven experience, industry knowledge, and technically expert staff who respond fast. today, we offer a turnkey approach that includes hardware, software, cameras and the integration of all these into one solution. each of these diverse clients has its own specific needs; running a city bus company presents very different challenges to operating an international airport. many customers are now looking for integrated systems and sophisticated applications whose capabilities go way beyond the minimum requirements. organisations responsible for transport infrastructures, whether urban mass transit networks or international airports, are engaging with many of the same issues. we offer smart, flexible, user-friendly solutions, founded on our synergy 3 software, to customers who have complex needs and face challenges which justify serious investment. this provides a better service for the customer, and avoids distracting the drivers from their ultimate responsibility, which is to ensure that passengers arrive at their destination safely.” strategic review 16 synectics plc annual report and accounts 2017 high security & public space integrated, turnkey solutions for urban environments our very first clients, 30 years ago, came from these sectors. synectics’ systems division serves these customers globally, while our ims teams at quadrant and sss operate primarily in the uk market. within this overall marketplace, synectics and quadrant support a series of more specific customer groups, each with distinct needs. greg alcorn, synectics’ divisional director for transport & infrastructure, emphasises that the whole solution has been designed with both efficiency and operator support in mind: “for any customer of this scale, providing immediate understanding of an incident is essential, but this solution goes much further to give operators at the arc the support they need to protect such a vast number of sites.” 18 synectics plc annual report and accounts 2017 strategic review our proprietary technology it all started with three people working after hours in a research & development lab. today, our core technologies are applied primarily in four main sectors: oil & gas, gaming, transport & infrastructure, and high security & public space. where industry standard components are perfectly suited to the job in hand, we use what is already available and integrate it into our systems. synergy 3’s business intelligence engine, dataveillance, extrapolates data from multiple sources to deliver real-time or historical statistics and trend analysis. like nigel, he is an inherently good man who enjoys his work, the people around him, and life in general. net finance costs in 2017 reduced by £6,000 to £130,000 as the cost and utilisation of borrowing facilities was broadly consistent between years. £2.8m 3.9% £2.0m £2.6m £1 .6m 2.3% £0.5m £1 .4m 25 synectics plc annual report and accounts 2017 performance review underlying diluted earnings per share +23% 15 16 17 return on capital employed +0.9% 15 16 17 15.1p 15.2p 8.5% diluted earnings per share +72% 15 16 17 at 30 november 2017 the group recognised a deferred tax asset of £0.3 million (2016: £0.4 million) in relation to tax losses which are expected to be offset against future taxable profits. in calculating earnings for underlying diluted eps, net profit is adjusted to eliminate the post-tax impact of non-underlying items. mike stilwell finance director 20 february 2018 28 synectics plc annual report and accounts 2017 performance review synectics’ systems division provides specialist electronic surveillance systems, based on its own proprietary technology, to global end customers with large-scale highly complex security requirements, particularly for oil & gas operations, gaming, transport & infrastructure protection, and high security & public space applications. oil prices have now roughly doubled from their lows of 2015/16 and early-cycle businesses in the sector are already experiencing significantly increased activity. nevertheless, a proportion of synectics’ revenue has traditionally derived from large-scale upstream projects, and these will take longer to ramp up. significant investment in a new operating system has allowed us to focus on providing actionable management information rather than just large quantities of data. these are not new issues but their profile and ambit have clearly risen in recent years, for reasons we all understand. synectics also engages independent experts to conduct an annual survey of our customers, named or anonymous at their option. employee engagement the group engages with its employees regularly through various media: email alerts, focus groups, monthly bulletins, team briefings, a biannual senior management conference and an annual staff survey. where possible credit risk is mitigated through deposit and milestone payment requirements which at least cover the cost of work performed. synectics will continue to focus on customer sectors where electronic security systems have a critical cost of failure, or an extreme environmental requirement, rather than the mass volume markets. in addition synectics will maintain a core of increasingly software-based proprietary technology giving higher-margin opportunities, and focus on developing recurring revenues. where possible credit risk is mitigated through deposit and milestone payment requirements which at least cover the cost of work performed. synectics will continue to focus on customer sectors where electronic security systems have a critical cost of failure, or an extreme environmental requirement, rather than the mass volume markets. in addition synectics will maintain a core of increasingly software-based proprietary technology giving higher-margin opportunities, and focus on developing recurring revenues. cgus to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. the group sells certain products bundled with maintenance or other services to be delivered over a predetermined period of time. exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and recognised in the group’s foreign currency translation reserve. notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 30 november 2017 65 synectics plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements 1 principal accounting policies continued other intangible assets other intangible assets, such as purchased computer software, are shown at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. it is anticipated that substantially all of the property cost provision carried forward at 30 november 2017 will be utilised within two years. the total charge recognised for the year arising from share-based payments is as follows: 2017 2016 £000 £000 equity-settled share-based payments 111 131 24 contingent liabilities certain subsidiary companies have agreed to guarantee a number of bonds, issued by lloyds bank plc and hsbc, amounting to a total of £0.4 million at 30 november 2017 (2016: £1.1 million). the accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements. notes to the company financial statements for the year ended 30 november 2017 89 synectics plc annual report and accounts 2017 financial statements 1 company accounting policies continued fixed asset investments fixed asset investments are stated at cost plus deemed capital contributions arising from share-based payment transactions less any provision for impairment.