our ampify-branded music creation apps (launchpad, blocs wave and groovebox) have been downloaded by over 7.5 million customers. since that starting point 28 years ago, the division has evolved to provide a spectrum of highly advanced technologically- driven products. through product innovation we now offer the best value to a wide range of different market segments. the company’s products have continued to grow market share in our established and growth markets. focusrite clarett is a premium range of interfaces for those whose recordings are more likely to have commercial potential. phil dudderidge founder and executive chairman “ i am delighted focusrite plc has delivered another strong year of growth. these are very promising statistics suggesting that we have the potential opportunity to engage people for their entire adult lifetimes. • number one in sales of audio interfaces but, overall, only approximately 1 1% market share across all ranges as the group enters new markets. we sold approximately 800,000 physical products to end-users last year, and our music creation apps were downloaded 2.7 million times with around 700,000 in-app customer transactions. sales of our second generation scarlett usb audio interface range, upgraded and launched in june last year, were particularly strong. we believe that our portfolio of professional aoip solutions are well poised to become industry standards in post-production, broadcast, installed and live sound. wider market acceptance of grid-based controllers in the electronic music space, coupled with larger penetration from online distribution channels such as amazon, has driven demand for launchpad. this product range experienced significant worldwide uplift in demand with year-on- year sales volume growth of 39.0%. revenues are still “ by improving the product and customer experience we will seek to extend the customer life cycle, keeping them using our products longer throughout their music-making lifetime.” focusrite plc annual report 2017 11 strategic report governance financial statements during the year we launched eight new hardware and two new software products, including: red 8 pre, clarett octopre, scarlett octopre, scarlett octopre dynamic, itrack one pre and circuit components update. geographic overview i am pleased to report that our success this past year was truly global and sales in all major regions grew. our solid momentum has continued into the current year and we continue to look forward with confidence. we look to retain our existing users and gain additional core customers by providing highly differentiated solutions that enable success in their creative endeavours. we believe disruption is a key element in growing our core customer base and differentiating ourselves. keep up to date with new developments at focusriteplc.com building a more resilient strategy for continued growth focusrite’s growth strategy comprises three fundamental goals: grow our core customer base; increase the lifetime value of our customers; and expand into new markets. we look to retain our existing users and gain additional core customers by providing highly differentiated solutions that enable success in their creative endeavours. we believe disruption is a key element in growing our core customer base and differentiating ourselves. their suite of freemium apps allows new music makers to create songs in minutes, even with no prior experience. this is the proportion of people who buy a focusrite product, register their purchase and have no need to call our technical helpline. the group will continue to monitor other possible effects of brexit and act accordingly as they become known. typically, members of the operations department within focusrite meet each supplier every quarter to review performance and costs. key resellers and distributors in certain countries, the group operates via a single distributor or has large individual reseller customers. the group is dependent for its continued success on being able to hire and retain such individuals. focusrite plc annual report 2017 26 corporate social responsibility ‘acting in a responsible and considerate way’ we have a duty to maintain the trust of the end-users of our products as well as our customers, suppliers, staff and other stakeholders by ensuring that we act with integrity at all times. focusrite visits its contract manufacturers once every three months to check on compliance issues, manufacturing control and general relationship management. examples of this include a strategic partnership with kuehne + nagel, which provides inbound and outbound third- party logistics to focusrite. it achieves this by reviewing each shipment to determine the most efficient methods of transporting products, both inbound and outbound. focusrite forward plans the production and shipment of its products so that air freight is rarely required. relations with employees whilst focusrite has clear leadership and reporting structures in place, it enjoys a flat hierarchy amongst its staff. however, it has been decided that all directors should be subject to annual election by shareholders. in each case, the audit committee concluded that there was an appropriate management of risk and financial judgement made. it is furthermore responsible for determining the total individual remuneration packages of each director including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share options. directors’ remuneration report focusrite plc annual report 2017 38 base salary base salaries for the executive directors are reviewed annually and determined taking account of individual performance, scope of responsibility, relative pay levels within the group and reference to external market data as referred to above. 2 dave froker ceased to be an employee on 31 december 2016, at which point all options that had not vested lapsed. cgus to which goodwill has been attributed under ifrs 3 ‘business combinations’ are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at fvtpl. these projects continue to progress in a satisfactory manner, and customer reaction has reconfirmed management’s previous estimates of anticipated revenues from the project. there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable. 29 share-based payments equity-settled share option schemes 1,947,659 options over focusrite plc’s shares were exercised during the year ended 31 august 2017 (2016: 1,181,498). for cash flow hedges the following table sets out the periods when the cash flows are expected to occur and when they are expected to affect profit or loss: 2017 carrying amount £’000 expected cash flow £’000 within 1 year £’000 between 1 and 5 years £’000 over 5 years £’000 forward exchange contracts liabilities (484) (484) (484) – – total (484) (484) (484) – – 2016 carrying amount £’000 expected cash flow £’000 within 1 year £’000 between 1 and 5 years £’000 over 5 years £’000 forward exchange contracts liabilities (1,143) (1,143) (1,143) – – total (1,143) (1,143) (1,143) – – interest rate risk management the group is not currently exposed to interest rate risk because it does not have any external borrowings. to counter this risk, the group operates with a high level of cash and no bank debt. • the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments. under ias 39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the income statement. all goods and services received in exchange for the grant of any share‑ based payment are measured at their fair values. notes to the company accounts continued for the year ended 31 august 2017 focusrite plc annual report 2017 85 strategic report governance financial statements registered office windsor house turnpike road high wycombe buckinghamshire hp12 3fx company number 09312676 auditor kpmg llp one snowhill snow hill queensway birmingham b4 6gh nominated adviser and broker panmure gordon (uk) limited one new change london ec4m 9af legal adviser stephenson harwood 1 finsbury circus london ec2m 7sh registrar equiniti limited aspect house spencer road lancing west sussex bn99 6da financial public relations belvedere communications limited enterprise house 1-2 hatfields london se1 9pg company secretary prism cosec limited advisers focusrite plc windsor house turnpike road high wycombe buckinghamshire hp12 3fx united kingdom t: +44 1494 462246 www.focusriteplc.com focusrite plc annual report 2017