• c4xd focusses on generating a high value pre-clinical asset portfolio that will drive revenue through early stage licensing deals with the pharmaceutical industry. partnerships • the company continues to enhance its core state-of-the-art target identification and drug design capabilities through strategic partnerships: – a multi-target risk-sharing alliance with evotec ag (“evotec”) was announced in september 2016. discovery engine progress • c4xd’ s proprietary drug asset portfolio has grown from three programmes in 2014 to eight programmes across a number of therapeutic areas. we are ambitious and aim to produce four or more pre-clinical candidates every year once the company reaches “steady state”. t axonomy3 ® fuels our drug discovery portfolio by generating novel targets in these genetically defined patient sub-groups. we only pursue new programmes in areas of high unmet medical need that are commercially attractive and focus on generating long-term partnerships with licensors. fast, cost-effective novel candidate discovery well diversified multi-disease portfolio across a variety of biological targets focussed investment on highest value activities long-term alliance revenue from partners suite of cutting-edge proprietary technologies highly experienced scientific team (>320 years) industry-leading management team and board proactive commercial capability strategic report 03 c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 www.c4xdiscovery.com interim chairman’s statement sam williams, interim chairman the board is fully committed to the delivery of our strategy. these, alongside our existing programmes, open new opportunities for future revenue-generating deals with the pharmaceutical industry. sam williams interim chairman 14 december 2017 we are passionate about finding better ways of discovering drugs. our lead programme, orexin-1, aims to treat addiction by targeting the “craving” process itself and, therefore, can be applied across a broad range of substance disorders. this deal enables us to increase the output of our engine whilst reducing risk and cost. alongside our own proprietary suite of cutting-edge technologies, the alliance with evotec will expand our ability to generate commercially attractive pre-clinical assets to meet the pharmaceutical industry’s increasing demand for high quality, early stage drug candidates. critically, robust scientific and commercial intelligence gathering continues to drive selection criteria for inclusion in our portfolio. strategic report 05 c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 www.c4xdiscovery.com ceo’s statement continued clive dix, chief executive officer drug discovery engine and portfolio review neuroscience – addiction and neurodegeneration oral orexin-1 receptor antagonist programme our most advanced drug discovery programme aims to provide a novel oral medicine for addiction/substance use disorders, a substantial area of unmet medical need forecast to be worth an estimated 13 billion per annum by 2018 1 . as a result, and in line with our stated goal, late stage commercial discussions are underway. during 2017, we have extended our initial exciting results on understanding the genetic basis of this disorder and confirmed these discrete patient sub-groups. recently we identified potent compounds suitable for oral delivery and these are now the subject of in vivo studies. commercially this is critical as current marketed drugs that target il-17 are based on injectable c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 06 strategic report monoclonal antibodies so an oral or topical treatment would increase the number of patients who can access drugs targeting this mechanism. of these, nine were prioritised based on corroborative biology in the scientific literature and druggability . these programmes are being progressed as part of the multi-target risk-sharing alliance with evotec ag (“evotec”) announced in september 2016. diabetes in late 2016, c4xd was awarded a £140k biomedical catalyst feasibility study award from innovateuk to progress hits for the gpr142 agonist programme for diabetes. one challenge with generating this data is that multiple 3d shape information is generated for each molecule (a “4d” ensemble of these individual 3d shapes) and scientific insights for design can be obtained from this data by comparing similar molecules that have different biological activity. the group may be unable to adequately protect itself from intellectual property infringement or effectively enforce its rights in certain jurisdictions. we will continue to review the situation, in particular the harmonisation of drug approval regulations and patent law, as well as any potential impact on existing staff and planned staff recruitment caused by any changes in immigration legislation. at this stage of its development, quantitative key performance indicators are not generally an effective way of measuring the group’ s strategic review clive dix, chief executive officer c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 08 strategic report financial review brad hoy, chief financial officer administrative expenses increased by £716,000 during the year to £2,533,000 (2016: £1,817,000) reflecting additional non-scientific staff costs, in particular staff to build a commercial team, and additional premises costs to support growing activities. brad hoy chief financial officer 14 december 2017 results revenue for the 12 months ended 31 july 2017 amounted to £143,000 (2016: £279,000). last year the group ceased its fee-for-service offering choosing only to work on a collaborative risk and revenue sharing basis. grants secured are accounted for as a reduction in research and development (“r&d”) expenses. our cash position and fundraising will allow c4xd to continue with its plan of becoming the world’s most productive drug discovery engine. since leaving lehman brothers, he has been ceo of istesso limited (formerly modern biosciences), where he has been responsible for overseeing the development of drug development programmes through to phase 2 clinical studies and signing major strategic partnerships with the global pharmaceutical industry . craig was part of the etiologics t eam that merged with argenta discovery in 2004 and prior to this he worked for bayer as a research scientist. until recently brad served as non-executive director on the board of directors for e-therapeutics plc. prior to joining aquarius equity, alex worked for ip group plc, where he specialised in life science investments, identifying, developing and advising a number of companies in its portfolio, some of which went on to list on aim. no non-executive director has had a material business relationship with the group; receives remuneration other than a director’ s fee and share options (save as disclosed); has close family ties with any of the group’ s advisers, directors or senior employees; or holds cross-directorships. cash deposits are spread across a range of financial institutions with investment grade credit status. other taxable benefits the group provides an occupational pension scheme for employees, including executive directors. the annual fee payable for sam’ s services as a non-executive director is £15,450 per annum. the annual fee payable for harry’ s services as a non-executive director is £15,450 per annum. in addition to his duties as a non-executive director, harry finch acts as a consultant on certain technical matters, for which he is remunerated at the rate of £1,400 per day, which the board (excluding harry finch) has determined to be an arm’ s length commercial rate. the annual fee payable for alex’ s services as a non-executive director is £15,450 per annum. 15 c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 www.c4xdiscovery.com corporate governance directors’ remuneration report continued information not subject to audit continued directors’ shareholdings directors’ interests in the shares of the group, including family and beneficial interests, at 31 july 2017 were: ordinary shares of 1 pence each 31 july 2017 number 31 july 2017 % 31 july 2016 number 31 july 2016 % dr sam williams 1,069,625 2.30% 1,069,625 3.29% dr clive dix 1,196,936 2.57% 691,250 2.13% brad hoy — — — — dr craig fox — — — — dr harry finch 321,425 0.69% 321,425 0.99% dr alex stevenson* 485,403 1.04% 485,403 1.49% * alex stevenson’ s interest is by way of shares held on his behalf by aquarius equity partners limited and his participation in the aquarius origin fund co-investment llp and the aquarius iv fund co-investment llp . ** alex stevenson’ s remuneration takes the form of monitoring fees paid to aquarius equity partners limited. this includes the provision of subsidised private health insurance for employees who elect to take it. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. the potential recoverable amounts of intangible fixed assets and goodwill have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. (c) segmental reporting an operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’ s chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. financial statements c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 32 3. significant accounting policies continued (k) intangible assets intangible assets acquired either as part of a business combination or from contractual or other legal rights are recognised separately from goodwill provided they are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably. this includes the costs associated with acquiring and registering patents in respect of intellectual property rights. the group manages all of its external bank relationships centrally in accordance with defined treasury policies. the group may use forward exchange contracts as an economic hedge against currency risk, where cash flow can be judged with reasonable certainty. during the year harry finch was paid £2,800 (2016: £11,550) in connection with services he provided as a technical consultant. 27. compensation of key management personnel (including directors) 2017 £000 2016 £000 short-term employee benefits 1,032 906 pension costs 72 59 share-based payments 86 45 1,190 1,010 financial statements c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 52 directors dr s c williams (non-executive interim chairman) dr c dix (chief executive officer) b r hoy (chief financial officer) dr c fox (chief scientific officer) dr h finch (non-executive director) dr a stevenson (non-executive director) secretary mr m j sullivan nominated adviser and broker panmure gordon (uk) limited one new change london ec4m 9af auditors kpmg llp one st peter’ s square manchester m2 3ae legal adviser schofield sweeney 76 wellington street leeds ls1 2ay financial pr consultants consilium strategic communications 41 lothbury london ec2r 7hg registrar link asset services the registry 34 beckenham road beckenham kent br3 4tu registered office manchester one 53 portland street manchester m1 3ld website www.c4xdiscovery.com corporate information c4x discovery holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 c4x discovery holdings plc manchester one 53 portland street manchester m1 3ld www.c4xdiscovery.com