our products are easy to use and consistently improve crop yields under a range of growth conditions. • veritas ® purchase plan agreed for 2017/18 brazil growing season based on our commercial partner’s end-user sales targets. cost-cutting behaviour by farmers has reduced input consumption, creating significant channel inventory in many markets, notably brazil and the united states. the industry is adjusting to these new conditions in a number of ways, most conspicuously by consolidation. £4m fund-raise maintains r&d momentum first complete soybean portfolio trials our strategy evolution recognises that r&d activities are at the core of what we are seeking to achieve and that these provide the main engine for an appreciation in long-term shareholder value. our agreement with ghent university gives us access to novel compounds as part of our focus on drought tolerance in fy18+ we plan to invest in higher throughput discovery and screening capabilities 0.4 create effective products from a replicable r&d platform approach our platform is founded on repeatable processes we have developed for predicting chemical entities that will perform, then rapidly characterising them for efficacy we increased r&d investment to provide additional laboratory space. our agreement with ghent university gives us access to novel compounds as part of our focus on drought tolerance in fy18+ we plan to invest in higher throughput discovery and screening capabilities 0.4 create effective products from a replicable r&d platform approach our platform is founded on repeatable processes we have developed for predicting chemical entities that will perform, then rapidly characterising them for efficacy we increased r&d investment to provide additional laboratory space. over the past year, we have identified partners who are eager to launch these early-stage formulations under their own labels. these commercial opportunities are being actively considered as interim solutions which can generate supplemental corporate funding for additional r&d in our core discovery and product development activities. as announced in july 2017, we have agreed a purchasing plan with bcs for 2017/18 which is lower than previously assumed. following this programme, we have designed a promotional campaign which has some elements of our channel strategy in both brazil and united states. we are developing that model with arysta chief executive’s review continued 5% approx 5% veritas ® yield uplift 11 financial statements governance report strategic report in cameroon and now in the ivory coast, and we have contracted with local technical resources to help support the necessary demonstration trials. our focus in this area has been on supporting distributor-led business plans, rather than trying to proactively drive grower demand. in fy17 the group, through our partner bayer cropscience, started making sales of veritas ® to paraguay and bolivia. additionally, £1,552k (2016: £1,169k) was capitalised within intangible assets as it relates to products that are in the late development stage where they are expected to be technically feasible and commercially viable and satisfy all the conditions prescribed by ias 38 for recognition as an intangible asset. these responses aim to divert the plant’s resources into ensuring continuity of species, not maximising yield. these are designed around key growth stages and common challenges when stresses trigger specific yield-impacting plant responses: our r&d focus areas soybean stress responses at: wheat stress responses at: • germination • vegetative stage • reproductive stage • spring wheat short season • drought • heat shock at reproductive stage plant responses crop effect too dry too wet soil crusting and compaction poor seed health negative changes to crop architecture climate extremes at seed stage +30˚c 0˚c poor water imbibition hormone changes trigger root/shoot partitioning and root architecture poor nutrient uptake increase in abscisic acid (aba) suboptimal leaf canopy for light interception poor root structure signalling between plant and rhizobia disrupted delayed nodulation cell membrane rupture extreme climate optimal climate hormone imbalance high temperature damage increased root to shoot partitioning poor nutrient uptake drought conditions plant responses crop effect normal grain development fewer grains dry soil triggers increase in root biosynthesis of abscisic acid (aba) limited water triggers reactive oxygen species, reducing cell membrane stability root to shoot aba signal wilting stunting smaller grains aba triggers leaf stomatal closure decreasing transpiration and water loss water partitioning drought affected wheat optimum conditions low / no rainfall competing demand for water for transpiration and cellular processes wheat stress response: drought +30˚c 19 financial statements governance report strategic report soybean stress responses at: germination wheat stress responses to: drought plant physiology is complex and there are many physiological responses to different stresses within each plant. our scientists identify the natural yield-impacting responses which can provide opportunities to intervene with chemistry, mitigating potential yield loss. for example: 20 plant impact plc | annual report 2017 strategic report portfolio pipeline key to the success of our r&d approach is an efficient, robust and replicable discovery to delivery platform of a sophistication more often applied by far larger agricultural chemical companies. in recent years, our r&d investment has embedded this platform and attracted respected scientists from world-leading organisations to help advance the emerging crop enhancement sector. following formulation to include biostimulants, small plot trials in a variety of geographical and growing conditions provided promising results. we are further refining the formulation, to be followed by registration, trademark, more grower trials and manufacturing scale-up. 26 plant impact plc | annual report 2017 strategic report delivery c. 2,000 veritas ® trials completed in brazil 2012–17 first trials of veritas ® in brazil 2012/13 taking effective products to market: establishing initial sales among progressive growers at market introduction stage our pilot sales target progressive, early adopter growers via distributors they trust. some risks may arise from internal factors and the execution of the business model, but some will also be as a result of external factors, such as economic, political or governance constraints, over which plant impact has little or no direct control. these include monthly project review meetings, formal quarterly risk assessments and other periodic reviews with the board as required. new risks are identified through senior management discussion (top down) and regular reporting from every part of the business (bottom up). similarly there is also the risk that internal priorities within their organisation could result in a lack of focus on projects involving plant impact technologies. commercialisation of the banzai ™ product has been actioned with arysta lifescience, and we are selling fortalis ® direct to distributors in north america. if they are not successful then a significant proportion of the group’s cash resources could be consumed. progress in cash generation against the business plan is monitored on a monthly basis and investment activities adjusted accordingly. work over the last 12 months to expand our pipeline of molecules being tested has reduced this risk. market conditions may not be favourable for the launch of new technologies, with crop prices, historic yield performance, availability of credit, foreign exchange risk and concern over weather patterns all potentially impacting the appetite for growers to invest in new chemical inputs. human resources risk as an r&d organisation developing intellectual property, recruiting and retaining quality individuals is paramount to our success. the group places great importance on internal communications to ensure that staff are kept fully aware of business developments. it also monitors executive management in the business through its review of financial, strategic and operational matters. there are practical limits to what can be achieved in a group of plant impact’s size. each member of the committee operates within a clearly defined group structure and has appropriate operational authority. this reporting includes up-to-date cash resource visibility and forward looking projections of the group’s financial position. payments linked to “success” such as regulatory filing or approval, and achievement of specified sales volumes, are recognised in full when the relevant event has occurred. other intangible assets are reassessed for indications that an impairment loss previously recognised may no longer exist. all other financial liabilities (for example, trade payables) are recorded initially at fair value, net of direct issue costs and are recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest-related charges recognised as an expense in finance cost in the income statement. for standard options issued under the plant impact performance share plan, fair value is determined using a trinomial valuation model. notes to the group financial statements continued 2. significant accounting policies continued 57 governance report strategic report financial statements all equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately recognised as an expense in the group income statement with a corresponding credit to “other reserve”. once accepted as an approved customer any outstanding debt is reviewed before approval of new sales orders. vcp options are intended to incentivise key senior managers and executive directors without a heavy cash investment by the group. these are used to finance the group’s operations and hence safeguarding them is regarded as a top priority. liquidity risk the group has managed its cash in a manner designed to ensure maximum benefit is gained, while ensuring security of investment sources. the exposure of trade receivables to foreign exchange fluctuations is reduced, as all relevant invoices are factored. for standard options issued under the plant impact performance share plan fair value is determined using a trinomial valuation model. all equity-settled share-based payments are ultimately recognised as an expense in the group income statement with a corresponding credit to “other reserve”.