read about progress with sra737 on page 5 operational highlights • lead cancer drug candidate sra737 (formerly cct245737), a novel chk1 inhibitor, licensed for clinical development and commercialisation to nasdaq-listed company sierra oncology, inc. by sareum’s co-investment partner, crt pioneer fund (september 2016). in disease models, sareum’s compounds demonstrated good oral bioavailability, were well tolerated and showed tumour reduction of up to 80% (october 2016). successful conclusion to the biomedical catalyst funded feasibility study for tyk2, with lead compounds showing tumour regression in a disease model of t-all. all our laboratory-based research is carried out in the facilities of collaborators or third-party providers. this enables us to access drug discovery expertise throughout the world with a very flexible cost base. sareum focuses on developing new therapies against biochemical targets where existing preclinical or early clinical data are available. the company is investigating its tyk2 inhibitors in several solid tumours and blood cancers at leading academic centres worldwide. a lead candidate is in preclinical development funded by sareum’s chinese partner, hebei medical university biomedical engineering center, and these studies suggest good tolerability at the predicted therapeutic dose. preclinical studies are expected to complete in h2 2018. read more on page 7 colorectal, head & neck, non-small cell lung, ovarian and prostate cancers bladder, pancreatic cancers aml, all t-all, alcl, colon cancer target lead optimisation candidate selection preclinical phase 1 clinical potential indications aurora+flt3 tyk2 chk1 (sra737) autoimmune cancer psoriasis, ra, lupus, ibd, ms chemotherapy combination monotherapy ra: rheumatoid arthritis ibd: inflammatory bowel disease ms: multiple sclerosis t-all: t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia alcl: anaplastic large cell lymphoma aml: acute myeloid leukaemia all: acute lymphoblastic leukaemia strategic report sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 3 sareum made important progress during the year ended 30 june 2017 across its key development programmes. additionally, clinical opportunities to explore the potential of sra737 with other new classes of targeted cancer therapy are expected in 2018. the agreement with sierra oncology represents a significant validation of sareum’s business model, which is based on its expertise in small molecule drug design and its strategy to develop programmes to late preclinical or early clinical stages. sareum aims to take advantage of the substantial values associated with out-licensing programmes at these stages. more importantly, however, sareum has gained an experienced, highly committed and well-funded development partner for sra737 in sierra oncology. the company continues to engage with potential partners with a view to securing commercial licences for its products and programmes, while exploring new research programmes from its in-house drug discovery platform, as well as external early stage opportunities that can be potentially in-licensed and progressed into the clinic. finally, i would like to thank our shareholders for their continued support and look forward to providing further updates on progress in 2018. dr stephen parker chairman 18 october 2017 “ sareum has gained an experienced, highly committed and well-funded development partner for sra737 in sierra oncology.“ stephen parker dphil non-executive chairman strategic report sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 4 important clinical progress with sra737, a novel chk1 kinase inhibitor sra737 (formerly cct245737) is a potent, highly selective, orally bioavailable small molecule inhibitor of chk1, a key regulator of important cell cycle checkpoints and central mediator of the dna damage response (ddr) network. the programme was licensed for further clinical development and commercialisation to nasdaq-listed sierra oncology in september 2016 in a deal worth a potential us328.5 million plus royalties, of which sareum is eligible to receive 27 .5% of the economics. strategic report sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 5 ceo’s research update tim mitchell phd founder and ceo sra737 – checkpoint kinase 1 (chk1) targeting solid tumours, licensed to sierra oncology sra737 (formerly cct245737) is a potent, highly selective, orally bioavailable small molecule inhibitor of chk1, a key regulator of important cell cycle checkpoints and central mediator of the dna damage response (ddr) network. the programme was licensed for further clinical development and commercialisation to sierra oncology in september 2016. sierra oncology is advancing next-generation ddr therapeutics for the treatment of patients with cancer, and sra737 is its lead candidate. the cohort expansion phase of this trial, now running at eight uk hospitals, is enrolling patients with five cancer types that are predicted to be highly sensitive to chk1 inhibition: colorectal, head and neck, non-small-cell lung, ovarian and prostate. sierra oncology has announced that it will provide an update on the sra737 development programme in late february 2018. sierra oncology also expects to present data from its studies at a medical conference in the second half of 2018. these data have led the company’s partner, sri international, to investigate advanced lead molecules in disease models of lupus, and promising initial efficacy has been observed. several of these studies are being carried out in leading academic centres worldwide under material transfer agreements. a lead candidate is in preclinical development, funded by sareum’s chinese partner, hmubec. literature academia larger pharmaceutical companies milestones and potential royalties co-development collaborations sareum’s co-development collaborations with world-class research institutes provide access to expertise and the ability to progress several programmes simultaneously whilst reducing research costs. this reduces the high capital cost of running in-house laboratories, minimises ongoing development risks and provides access to best-in-class expertise for its programmes. drug development expertise sareum generates value by developing a strong pipeline of candidate drugs. to date this has been done through its drug discovery platform, skil ® (sareum kinase inhibitor library), where new compounds targeting cancer and autoimmune diseases are identified. preclinical development safety toxicology, formulation and quality control studies are performed in the laboratories of cros. sareum has historically raised the majority of its funds from investors via licensed brokers and this continues to be an option. we also seek collaboration partners whose own due diligence reaffirms our assessment of a candidate’s potential. ip considerations form a crucial part of due diligence when we are assessing in-licensing opportunities. we work closely with our partners to anticipate and plan around any likely delays. progress and key milestones are monitored to understand how these may affect our own programmes. under the articles of association, all directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years. one third of the directors retire by rotation at every agm and are eligible for re-appointment. the internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. corporate social responsibility sareum is a small, motivated team of professional people, which operates to high standards. these standards include a commitment to best practice in meeting the company’s social responsibilities. it meets at least once a year to review salaries and share option schemes for the directors. we examined journals posted around the year end, specifically focusing on areas which are more easily manipulated such as accruals, prepayments, bank reconciliations and tax. our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 21 financial statements company balance sheet as at 30 june 2017 notes 2017 £ 2016 £ assets non-current assets investments 11 30,000 30,000 current assets trade and other receivables 12 — — liabilities current liabilities — — net assets 30,000 30,000 shareholders’ equity called up share capital 17 661,305 661,305 share premium 18 11,765,111 11,765,111 share-based compensation reserve 18 191,945 110,209 retained earnings 18 (12,588,361) (12,506,625) total equity 30,000 30,000 the financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 18 october 2017 and were signed on its behalf by: t mitchell phd director the notes form part of these financial statements. 2. statutory information sareum holdings plc is a public limited company, registered in england and wales. sareum holdings plc annual report and accounts 2017 25 financial statements 3. accounting policies continued employee share scheme the group has in place a share option scheme for employees, which allows them to acquire shares in the company. policies for the management of these risks are shown below and have been consistently applied. funds are maintained in sterling and foreign currency is acquired on the basis of committed expenditure. non-market risks liquidity risk the board has responsibility for reducing exposure to liquidity risk and ensures that adequate funds are available to meet anticipated requirements from existing operations by a process of continual monitoring. details of share options granted can be found in note 23 to the financial statements, share-based payment transactions. share-based compensation reserve cumulative fair value of share options granted and recognised as an expense in the income statement. 21. related party disclosures disclosure regarding the remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 4, employees and directors. transactions between the company and its subsidiary, sareum limited, which is a related party, have been eliminated on consolidation.