in the 1990s, mobile phones were mostly used for calls on 2g networks, and basic picture messages could be sent at very low speeds of 50–200 kbps. in addition, there are an increasing number of over-the-top (‘ott’) operators that provide internet-based apps for content, messaging and voice services. page 26 of this report shows how we are successfully aligning our business objectives with a clear social purpose to create value and meet customer expectations. overall, i am pleased to report that the group’s commercial and financial performance has further improved, although on a reported basis this was masked by currency headwinds. an improved overall customer experience allowed us to introduce “more-for - more” propositions, in which customers received greater value for a higher monthly payment. in developing markets, which typically lack extensive fixed infrastructure, demand for internet access via mobile is a long-lasting driver of data consumption and revenue growth. our core european mobile revenues remain under pressure as a result of intense competition, so it is important that we diversify into fixed and related services. we seek successful it transformation initiatives as the vehicle for delivering a great customer experience, high-quality reliable systems, improving our time to market and enabling best-in-class digital capabilities. key risk indicators we monitor multiple trends including: – privileged user access levels – confirmed security incidents – critical vulnerabilities changes since last report organisations in all sectors are targeted by an increasing volume and sophistication of cyber attacks. we actively look for opportunities, in all markets, to provide services beyond mobile through organic investment, acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures. we actively seek to improve these programmes and this year will see a focus on ensuring compliance with the eu general data protection regulation. margin expansion was driven by revenue growth, our focus on more profitable direct channels and a reduction of underlying operating costs. mobile service revenue grew 1.5%* (q3: 1.4%*, q4: 1.4%*) driven by arpu growth in prepaid following changes to our tariff plans and improved data monetisation through targeted “more-for-more” offers. in south africa, margin improvement was supported by a subsidy shift towards data enabled devices, improved channel efficiencies, rationalisation of offices and network cost savings. this was driven by lower projected cash flows within our business plan as a result of increased competition in the market. board changes and diversity in january 201 7 , we announced the appointment of maria amparo moraleda martinez as a non-executive director with effect from 1 june 2017 . previous roles include: – ericsson, various roles including executive vp (1996–2015) nick jeffery chief executive officer – vodafone uk tenure: <1 year nationality: british responsibilities: nick is responsible for: – defining vodafone’s strategy in the uk in accordance with group strategy and operating models; – executing the strategic vision into commercial plans; and – ensuring delivery against key performance indicators. pricewaterhousecoopers llp also identified this as an area of higher audit effort and the committee received reporting from it on these matters. this remains an area of audit focus and pricewaterhousecoopers llp provided detailed reporting on these matters to the committee, including sensitivity testing. as in previous years the committee will continue to ensure that incentive payouts are not excessive and any salary increases remain appropriate. this may cover (but is not limited to) relocation, cost of living allowance, housing, home leave, education support, tax equalisation and advice. financial measures may include (but are not limited to) profit, revenue and cash flow with a weighting of no less than 50%. this may cover (but is not limited to) relocation, cost of living allowance, housing, home leave, education support, tax equalisation and advice. financial measures may include (but are not limited to) profit, revenue and cash flow with a weighting of no less than 50%. this will be achieved by granting awards of cash or shares that vest over a timeframe similar to those forfeited and if appropriate based on performance conditions. following a review of the uk all-employee plans it was decided that with effect from 1 april 201 7 such offerings should be solely provided through an enhanced sharesave programme. at 31 march 2017 total number of interests in shares non-executive directors sir crispin davis 34,500 dr mathias döpfner 11,500 dame clara furse 25,000 valerie gooding 28,970 renee james 27 ,272 samuel jonah 30,190 gerard kleisterlee 107 ,078 nick land 42,090 david nish 7 4,137 phil y ea 33,408 at 16 may 2017 and during the period from 1 april 2017 to 16 may 2017 , no director had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company. we determined that the carrying value of deferred tax assets at 31 march 2017 was supported by management’s plans including intercompany funding arrangements. in determining and applying accounting policies, directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the group’s reported financial position, results or cash flows; it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate. this was driven by lower projected cash flows within our business plan as a result of increased competition in the market. accounting policies trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. the group uses a number of derivative instruments for currency and interest rate risk management purposes only that are transacted by specialist treasury personnel. 2 level 1 classification comprises financial instruments where fair value is determined by unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 5 commercial paper and other bank loans are held at amortised cost with fair values calculated from market observable data where appropriate. operating lease commitments the group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, network infrastructure, motor vehicles and items of equipment. on 9 june 2016, vodafone announced its intention to merge with sky network television in new zealand, thereby creating the country’s leading integrated telecommunications and media group. this matter has been ongoing since 2001. the german courts are also determining whether “squeeze out” compensation is payable to affected mannesmann shareholders in a similar proceeding. both cases have been adjourned until september 2018, but it is possible that papistas may re-file his claim under the new greek civil procedure regime (which aims to hear trials within one year). mr. makate failed to obtain from the constitutional court a second order that compensation be based on revenue rather than fees for his contribution. we have made further strong progress on network investment, with 87% 4g coverage and dropped call rates declining 25% year-on-year to an all-time low of 0.44%. the mobile business is on a steady recovery path, while fixed performance continues to be positive despite increased competition in recent months. excluding this effect, adjusted ebitda margins rose driven by operating leverage, tight cost control and a tailwind from foreign exchange gains. a strong revenue performance and improved margins in turkey were partly offset by higher costs for imported goods post foreign exchange rate devaluations across the region. this ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments are credited to shareholders’ bank or building society accounts on the same day as payment. however, the company does not maintain calculations of its earnings and profits in accordance with us federal income tax accounting principles. us holders should therefore assume that any distribution by the company with respect to shares will be reported as ordinary dividend income. deutsch telekom’s vectoring deployment is expected to commence in september 201 7 , once the existing unbundled local loop (‘ull ’) reference offer updates have been finalised. there are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. vodafone group plc annual report 2017 218 definition of terms unaudited information 2g 2g networks are operated using global system for mobile (‘gsm’) technology which offers services such as voice, text messaging and low speed data. this removes the need for customers to make capital investments and instead they have an operating cost model with a recurring monthly fee.