• due to its diverse operations and operating scale, biffa is not dependent on any single sector, service or facility. the group’s four operating divisions support each other by providing control over waste flows and security of disposal routes. the group’s services are organised across four operating divisions: industrial & commercial (i&c); municipal; resource recovery & treatment (rr&t); and energy. the facilities sort dry mixed recyclables to make them suitable for use as secondary raw materials in manufacturing processes. i would also like to thank the group’s loyal employees for their hard work and commitment this year. the waste management industry continues to be one which evolves in a way that involves an ever increasingly complicated supply chain. i would like to personally thank all the people of biffa for their hard work and dedication, especially through a demanding listing process. ian wakelin chief executive 13 june 2017 our strategy continues to deliver results and therefore remains unchanged” 1 see glossary collection processing and treatment end products our collection services: landﬁll, if it cannot be treated refuse derived fuel recyclate recovery anaerobic digestion soil treatment & composting treatment of hazardous materials energy commodities compost soil aggregates rdf to an efw end products include: processes at biffa facilities: through biffa’s ﬂeet of waste collection vehicles. examples of processing methods include separation, reuse, recycling, recovery and biological treatment such as composting, anaerobic digestion or incineration. how we make money revenue sources • rental charges of containers (i&c) • lift and disposal charges (i&c) • contract fees (municipal) • payment for services (municipal) • gate fee for taking third–party waste to process • sale of end products to re–processors • revenues from the sale of electricity costs • gate fees payable to third party operators (if waste cannot be processed at a biffa facility) • vehicle, personnel and associated supported services • processing and treatment costs • landfill tax • processing costs (including equipment and personnel costs) • gate fee disposal costs for certain products (e.g. for rdf to an efw) collection processing and treatment end products our collection services: landﬁll, if it cannot be treated refuse derived fuel recyclate recovery anaerobic digestion soil treatment & composting treatment of hazardous materials energy commodities compost soil aggregates rdf to an efw end products include: processes at biffa facilities: through biffa’s ﬂeet of waste collection vehicles. examples of processing methods include separation, reuse, recycling, recovery and biological treatment such as composting, anaerobic digestion or incineration. why these kpis are important the uk waste market is expected to continue its broader shift away from landfill disposal toward recycling and energy recovery. we were successful in growing our i&c business, with notable new customers including john lewis partnership, coca cola enterprises and engie. • underlying operating profit margin growth from 5.7% to 7 .4%: prior year acquisitions fully integrated while other cost efficiencies and price discipline delivered into the base business. in parallel we continued to focus on developing alternative treatments for certain materials, including composting, aggregates recycling and polymer reprocessing. currently there appears to be excess capacity and this has resulted in a downward pressure on gate fees. the board will continually review organic growth opportunities, value enhancing acquisitions and shareholder returns to ensure it operates with an optimal capital structure. if the group were to violate health & safety laws/ regulations it could have a material adverse effect on biffa’s business and reputation. • due diligence undertaken for all m&a transactions including use of external advisers depending on target value and complexity. a standardised approach using an established valuation model is also in place with all transactions reviewed/approved by the investment committee and (where appropriate) board. financial reputational operational • externally hosted business continuity recovery sites for key admin and support functions with a tri-annual testing programme in place. • intrusion detection in place and an imminent migration to a cloud-based “always on” security service protecting against key cyber threats. any economic weakness that leads to reduced volumes of waste and recyclate could adversely impact the group’s business. we understand the importance of nurturing and developing our internal talent, particularly in relation to succession planning for senior positions within biffa. we compare our employee engagement levels with other business metrics such as profitability, health & safety performance and customer service. vehicle and plant movements a key priority at all biffa facilities is to ensure robust pedestrian segregation systems are in place. biffa operates in accordance with a “5 metre” rule to ensure that vehicles and mobile plant operators stop work if pedestrians enter their safe working zone. biffa was the first waste management company to enter into a primary authority agreement with hampshire fire and rescue service. 2015 saw increased focus in this area to continue driving performance forward, including production of a new, target-driven, three-year environmental compliance and training strategy. this approach involves focus on reducing our energy consumption, continually improving how we manage landfill methane and increasing the quantities of recyclate released to market. nationality: british appointment date: 18 august 2016 committee membership: n external appointments ian is a board member of the environmental services association. nationality: british appointment date: 28 september 2016 committee memberships: r external appointments michael is chairman of both fishers services limited and rochford capital pty in australia. four further board and two remuneration committee meetings were held as part of the ipo process prior to admission. directors are provided with appropriate documentation approximately one week in advance of each board or committee meeting during the year. each director provides the company secretary with information regarding any actual or potential interests that may conflict with those of the company, such as other external directorships, and any other potential interests that each thinks may cause a conflict requiring prior board authorisation on an annual basis. whistleblowing the group adopted procedures at least 12 months prior to admission by which all employees may, in confidence, report any concerns. benefits may be provided up to an aggregate value of £50,000 for each executive director (or such higher amount as the remuneration committee considers appropriate). the remuneration committee may impose such conditions as it considers appropriate which must be satisfied before any award will vest. the chairman and non-executive directors do not participate in any new cash or share incentive plans since admission. it may, however, be necessary in some cases to make buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than the existing annual bonus plan and psp . the service agreements of all executive directors, which are available for inspection at the company’s registered office, comply with this policy: • ian wakelin’s service agreement is terminable by either party on not less than 12 months’ written notice or immediately upon payment in lieu of notice, and contains a 12-month garden leave clause. the contract provides for immediate termination upon payment in lieu of notice and contains a six-month garden leave clause. 0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750 2000 2250 2500 long-term incentive ian wakelin chief executive ofﬁcer minimum on-target maximum minimum on-target maximum michael topham chief financial ofﬁcer annual bonus fixed 100% 51% 33% 16% 30% 32% 37% 100% 56% 30% 14% 34% 31% 35% £1,161 £714 £398 £2,047 £’000 £1,208 £619 61 www.biffa.co.uk corporate governance biffa plc annual report and accounts 2017 if there is a takeover, scheme of arrangement, demerger or other corporate reorganisation of the company, participants may be required, or may be allowed, to exchange their awards for equivalent awards in the acquiring company. other members of senior management participate in similar annual bonus arrangements to the executive directors, although award sizes vary by organisational level. this has been supported by biffa receiving external professional advice, and therefore management do not reasonably expect a liability to be probable. there will also be an increase to fixed assets and finance leases creditors on statement of financial position. income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified as at fvtpl. the fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are determined based on discounted cash flow analysis using current market rates for similar instruments. the fair value of non-derivative financial assets and liabilities are determined based on discounted cash flow analysis using current market rates for similar instruments. void measure of potential capacity of a landfill site in cubic metres waste hierarchy the hierarchy of waste management options established by the waste (england and wales) regulations 201 1 (as amended) www.biffa.co.uk 120 biffa plc annual report and accounts 2017 additional information other information and glossary continued corporate information www.biffa.co.uk registered office biffa plc coronation road cressex high wycombe buckinghamshire hp12 3tz registrar equiniti limited aspect house spencer road lancing west sussex bn99 6da auditor deloitte llp 2 new street square london ec4a 3bz corporate brokers citigroup global markets limited 33 canada square canary wharf london e14 5lb jp morgan 25 bank street canary wharf london e14 5jp solicitors linklaters llp 1 silk street londo ec24 8hq financial pr advisors instinctif partners 65 gresham street london ec2v 7nq forward-looking statements certain statements made in this annual report are forward looking and are based on current expectations.