we do not believe that the repurchase programme will have any material impact on our ability to secure acquisition opportunities should these be identiﬁed. annual report and accounts 2017 we are a growth driven, branded consumer goods business, delivering long-term sustainable value. in contrast, the carbonates sector experienced modest inﬂation, growing value by just over 1% versus a ﬂat volume position. in march 2017 we announced our intention to meet consumers’ changing tastes and preferences with a number of further signiﬁcant portfolio developments. the snapple brand has enjoyed growth of over 20% across 2016/17, with signiﬁcant product innovation, packaging advancements chief executive’s review continued 11 a.g. barr p.l.c. we are operating from a well-invested and sustainable asset base, with our new organisational structures established to support growth. ebitda (deﬁned as proﬁt on ordinary activities before tax less exceptional items, adding back interest, depreciation, amortisation and impairment) divided by revenue. net cash ﬂow excluding the movements in borrowings, expansionary capex, shares, dividend payments and non-cash exceptional items. supported by a national tv advertising campaign, rubicon spring has sold more than 7.6 million bottles since its launch. irn-bru, rubicon and funkin in particular exit the full year with strong momentum based on positive brand fundamentals. this signiﬁcant investment also ožers exciting opportunities to support our innovation programme and ožer new glass formats. we believe this committed approach to growth, productivity and cash generation will drive further sustainable value creation for shareholders. our portfolio carbonates, including barr flavours, tizer and ka have been impacted by retailer range reduction activity. this expansionary capital will deliver logistics cost savings and provide production ﬂexibility to support our innovation pipeline. the current value of sterling has created an inﬂationary pressure on our commodity cost base, primarily euro or us dollar denominated. we do not believe that the repurchase programme will have any material impact on our ability to secure acquisition opportunities should these be identiﬁed. this is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all risks and uncertainties that may arise. term of ošce joined the company as finance director in january 2015. external appointments trustee community integrated care. in the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will continue. if a participant does not submit an instruction to the aesop trustee, no vote is registered in respect of those shares. the chairman also ensures that board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge, with su§cient time made available to debate issues arising. the nomination committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least once per year. the board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining ežective control over strategic, ﬁnancial, operational and compliance issues. financial reporting there is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the board. kpmg audit plc was appointed as the group’s external auditor in may 2009 following a competitive tender process. targets are set annually reﬂecting the company’s strategy and aligned with key ﬁnancial, strategic and/ or individual objectives. executive directors are also entitled to participate in a hmrc tax- advantaged all-employee share ownership plan (“aesop”). full payment or vesting will only occur for what the remuneration committee considers to be stretching performance. non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders in accordance with the code. change of control awards under the ltip will generally vest early on a takeover, merger or other corporate reorganisation. the company has regular contact with union bodies on matters of pay and remuneration for employees covered by collective bargaining or consultation arrangements. employees who join this arrangement no longer pay contributions to the pension schemes but receive a lower taxable salary. annual report and accounts 2017 corporate governance directors’ remuneration report continued details of ltip awards vesting in respect of the ﬁnancial period are set out below: year ended 28 january 2017 executive director total shares number award rate % shares awarded* number ‡ share price** £ ltip value £000 r.a. white 84,354 40.02% 36,426 5.02 183 s. lorimer 20,325 40.02% 8,727 5.02 44 j.d. company contributions (which exclude any pension contributions made in respect of an individual under the company’s salary sacriﬁce arrangement) are detailed in the following table: year ended 28 january 2017 director deﬁned beneﬁt £000 deﬁned contribution £000 urbs £000 investment return on urbs £000 total £000 r.a. white 29 – 130 (2) 157 s. lorimer – 10 46 – 56 j.d. as the group uses a standard cost as its basis of inventory valuation, changes in price and production levels lead to purchase price or manufacturing variances which, if not accounted for correctly, may lead to the valuation of inventories being misstated. have been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards (“ifrs”) as adopted by the european union. revenue recognition revenue is the net invoiced sales value, after deducting promotional sales related discounts invoiced by customers, including brand support costs, and exclusive of value added tax of goods and services supplied to external customers during the year. brands acquired separately or through a business combination are assessed at the date of acquisition as to whether they have an indefinite life. the useful lives of all intangible assets are reviewed annually and amended, as required, on a prospective basis. subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. these calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management which cover a three year period. sensitivity analysis was carried out on the above calculations to review possible levels of impairment after adjusting discount rates. annual report and accounts 2017 accounts strategic report corporate governance 16. derivative financial instruments group and company fair value hierarchy ifrs 7 requires all financial instruments carried at fair value to be analysed under the following levels: level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. the fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. where trade receivables are past due, an assessment is made of individual customers and the outstanding balance. shareholders will be given a binding vote on the directors’ remuneration policy at least every three years. such an appointment can be made using the proxy form accompanying this notice of agm or through crest. if a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy, they should contact the registrar at equiniti limited, aspect house, spencer road, lancing bn99 6da. normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of crest proxy instructions. ), m.b.a. auditors kpmg llp 319 st vincent street glasgow g2 5as registrars equiniti ltd aspect house spencer road lancing west sussex bn99 6da registered number sc005653