read more on page 22 lemur resources – developing an integrated thermal coal mining and independent power producer ‘ipp’ asset in madagascar. i am pleased to report that the company has been disciplined and consistent in delivering on this strategy. bushveld energy has established an invaluable working relationship with its local partner, the industrial development corporation of south africa. ian watson non-executive chairman “ i am pleased to report that the company has been disciplined and consistent in delivering on this strategy. it currently has an approximate 3.5% share of global supply capacity and provides a solid platform for growing this production base. vametco has an ungeared financial position and a healthy cash generation ability which enabled bvl to fund the acquisition largely through debt. we believe that the answer to these hurdles lies in a vertically integrated business model involving low-cost vanadium production assets. as a consequence of this transaction, the local landowners and affected communities’ shareholding in vametco increased from 3.75% to about 12%. scalability 4 scale, combined with the other three criteria, will allow for a multiplier of exit value to be achieved. it also places our projects on the radar of major industry participants, creating significant opportunities for partnerships and/or outright sale. greenhills resources’ tin assets are typically open-cast propositions whose metallurgy is generally amenable to simple gravity-based processing with good recoveries. tin processing plants can be built in small, modular and scalable format, which allows for modest initial capex requirements. the uis project in namibia already has a mining license with an old pilot processing plant which, when refurbished, will provide proof-of-concept tin concentrate production. greenhill resources’s tin assets provide a critical mass of mineable deposits that will form the basis for its scale-up plans. an application for a mining right was lodged in march 2015 and is currently still being processed by south africa’s department of minerals resources. vametco operates an open pit mine supplying ore to its vanadium processing plant located on the same properties. vametco operates an open pit mine supplying ore to its vanadium processing plant located on the same properties. processing vametco employs the standard salt roast and leach process to produce a trademark vanadium carbon nitride (vcn) product called nitrovan ™ . vrfbs have several features that make them ideal for utility scale, stationary energy storage applications: a) lifespan cycles – able to charge and discharge repeatedly (>35,000 times) giving it a long (>20 years) lifespan; b) capacity for 100% discharge without performance degradation is unique; c) capacity to store large quantities of energy and scalable up into the mw-range; d) very fast response time (<70kms); e) only one battery element – therefore no cross-contamination – unique among flow batteries; and f) 100% of vanadium is reusable upon decommissioning of the system. it showed that the three main uses for vrfbs in africa are expected to be energy-intensive storage applications requiring locational flexibility. initial estimates show highly favourable internal rates of return at globally competitive electrolyte pricing, and these are being detailed via a financial model. the largest cost driver for electrolyte production is operating expenses, of which over 85% are reagent costs, primarily vanadium. based on the highly favourable findings and recommendations of the techno-economic study, both bushveld energy and the idc have decided to pursue this opportunity further by: • studying possible locations within south africa for the electrolyte production facility, taking into account environmental requirements, logistics costs, ability to in-stream with existing vanadium processing and government incentives; projects overview continued 21 bushveld minerals annual report 2017 financial statements administration governance business review mw/annum 0 20,000 middle east & north africa 40,000 60,000 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 80,000 100,000 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 us millions/annum sub-saharan africa la n america & caribbean eastern europe & central asia south asia east asia & paciﬁc total revenue mr. mikhail nikomarov ceo of bushveld energy mr. mikhail nikomarov is an entrepreneur and african energy expert who has worked on strategic and operational energy issues across four continents, including eight african countries. in this market, the vanadium redox flow batteries are well positioned to take a significant share of the stationary energy storage market, on account of unique features that give them an edge in large-scale, stationary and long duration energy storage applications. the ess market is also expanding into long duration systems, which prioritise energy (watt hours) over power (watts). although lithium ion technology currently dominates the ess market globally, deployment of large vrfbs is also increasing. such battery sizes are ideal for utilites that plan to use all the capabilities of ess, including its location benefits within a distribution network. projected annual stationary energy storage deployments, power capacity and revenue by region source: international finance corporation, navigant research 2017. in june 2016, bushveld minerals presented the results from pilot-scale metallurgical test work and plant design at its groenfontein tin deposit. the groenfontein test work was intended to assess tin recovery on a plant-scale, gain insight into potential concentrate grades, and fine-tune plant flowsheet design parameters. at the time of compiling this report, greenhills and vbkom were still in discussions regarding an optimal project development strategy. greenhills resources is an attractive stand-alone platform with quality strategic partners and a strong dedicated management team to deliver long-term shareholder value. during its due diligence on the uis project, greenhills’s technical team identified large mineralised pegmatite ore bodies with localised samples of >0.3% sn commonly found in greisenised zones. greenhills also found that the old existing plant at uis could be refurbished for an initial 10tph pilot scale production of tin concentrate while geological work was undertaken to confirm a jorc compliant resource in support of feasibility studies towards larger scale production. an existing pilot plant at the uis mine is currently being used to test gravity separation using jigs, spirals and shaking tables, with over 2 tons of cassiterite concentrate produced thus far. these countries are leading global electronic producers and consumers for consumer electronics in which tin is used extensively as solder. in march 2017 , the company finalised an mou with sinohydro, to cooperate on a technical and, potentially, financial basis. finally, lemur has initiated preliminary project finance discussions with financial institutions, which it will progress upon the successful completion of a favourable bfs by sinohydro. overall, the plant commissioning date is expected in 2020/21, subject to approvals and financial close on approximately us200 million of funding. bushveld minerals has over the years attracted a highly experienced team with multi-disciplinary skills who all share our long-term vision. in 1998 he listed mccreedy friedlander as part of a financial services group on the jse and shortly afterwards relocated to london. state whether they have been prepared in accordance with ifrs as adopted by the eu; and iv. group board meetings may be held via teleconference although whenever practically possible the directors will endeavour to attend in person. when necessary amounts reported by subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the group’s accounting policies. this may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. lemur has to date completed a conceptual study, followed by more detailed pre-feasibility studies (“pfs”) for the mine, power plant and transmission line. • due diligence confirms large well developed pegmatite ore body with 0.3% sn commonly found in greisenised zones, estimated to host approximately 20,000 tons of tin. 58 bushveld minerals annual report 2017 administration notice of annual general meeting bushveld minerals limited (incorporated in guernsey under registered number 54506) registered office: 18–20 le pollet st peter port guernsey gy1 1wh 21 august 2017 this document and the accompanying form of proxy is important and requires your immediate attention. 5. that a. viljoen shall be re-elected as a director, having retired by rotation and offered himself for re-election. 6. that g. sproule shall be re-elected as a director, having retired by rotation and offered himself for re-election.