our strategy is to continue growing through organic improvement and acquisition of businesses in the heavyside construction materials market. financial highlights operational highlights revenue £652.4m 2016: £454.7m +43% underlying ebit margin* 12.3% 2016: 13.1% profit before taxation £71.2m 2016: £46.8m +52% underlying ebit* £80.4m 2016: £59.6m +35% underlying basic earnings per share* 4.14p 2016: 3.49p +19% net debt £109.8m 2016: £159.3m -31% • a year of solid progress, with improved performances from all three divisions • strong organic earnings growth, supplemented by contributions from acquisitions • significant investment in mineral assets, capacity and operational improvements • t wo bolt-on acquisitions completed • planned acquisition of t armac quarry and asphalt assets announced • following full integration of 2016 hope acquisition, growth platform strengthened, with significant scale, national reach and vertical integration • further 25 per cent reduction in employee lost time injury frequency rate (l tifr) to 1.41 leinthall quarry in herefordshire 03 01 strategic report 02 03 04 breedon group is the only major quoted company offering a focused uk investment opportunity in the heavyside construction materials industry. in the past, the plant has relied on hope works’ neighbouring shale quarry for this material, but we are increasingly using pulverised fly ash (pfa) as a sustainable alternative source of waste-derived raw material, which is helping to improve our husbandry of our shale resources. we also operate 26 asphalt plants, located mainly in our quarries, which mix aggregates and bitumen to produce coated stone. we maximise the margin on our cement by internalising as large a proportion as possible to our ready-mixed concrete plants, and we also produce a range of packed cements, dry- mixed cementitious mortars and screeds for the builders merchants market. c ost-effective delivery of heavyside construction materials from quarry or plant to site requires highly efficient logistics management, coupled with flexible and responsive customer service. breedon has always prided itself on staying local and being easy to do business with, which means we have no national call centres or centralised shipping for our downstream products, but instead a network of local businesses with an uncompromising commitment to outstanding service. this rail distribution network is complemented by a fleet of more than 850 delivery vehicles, including cement tankers, articulated tipper lorries and ready-mixed concrete trucks, which deliver direct to customers’ sites anywhere from stornoway in the hebrides to the south coast of england. see risks 1 – 8 inc. how we’ve performed: good progress was made through a combination of solid organic growth, supplemented by sales contributions from acquisitions completed in 2016 and 2017. why we’ve chosen this measure: this metric tracks improvements in the relative profitability of the group and enables us to monitor progress against our stated objective of achieving a 15 per cent underlying ebit margin by 2020. we also use it as a risk monitor. the impact of this dilution is now behind us and we are making good progress towards our target. t he group’s principal risks and uncertainties, together with examples of mitigants, are set out overleaf. we completed the integration of our largest-ever acquisition, concluded two bolt-on purchases and announced an important transaction with tarmac holdings limited (tarmac) that, subject to approval by the competition authorities, will see us streamline our ready-mixed concrete network in exchange for a substantial new reserve of minerals and a strategically valuable asphalt plant. this did not, however, distract us from our operational focus and we once again delivered a solid financial performance. we have a very straightforward mission: to be the safest and most profitable company in our industry. peter tom cbe executive chairman 7 march 2018 25 01 strategic report 02 03 04 trading performance w e made good progress in 2017, with volumes and revenues comfortably ahead of the prior year. growth was led by healthy increases in residential and infrastructure development, which together account for the majority of our end-use markets. the planned acquisition of minffordd quarry from tarmac will give us another new plant, expanding our asphalt network to 28 plants nationwide. investments last year in equipment upgrades at tom’s forest and dowlow quarries are already producing improved performances. a: we decided very soon after the acquisition of hope to restructure our management on regional and area general manager lines, in order to ensure that we had ambitious and capable people in those key roles on which the business depends. there is no doubt that 2018 will continue to be challenging in some areas of the construction market. our planned acquisition of quarrying and asphalt assets from tarmac will give us an even more powerful platform for growth. further investments were made in commencing replacement of our asphalt plant at furnace quarry near inverary and installing a new wash plant at our tom’s forest quarry near aberdeen, which will enable us to fully exploit a valuable sand resource in the overburden. we also won significant work at manchester international airport and from a wide range of groundwork specialists servicing the buoyant housebuilding industry. 2017 achievements • strong trading performance • plant reliability ahead of budget • import terminals integrated • bagged cement building solid customer base • major investment programme completed • logistics and service functions streamlined key achievements as planned, we have internalised cement supplies to the great majority of breedon southern’s concrete plants. headquarters hope works, derbyshire colleagues 234 cement plants 1 quarries 2 cementitious import terminals 2 bagging plants 1 rail-fed depots 4 35 01 strategic report 02 03 04 revenue £141.6m underlying ebit £25.8m capital investment we completed a major programme of capital investment during the year, including a fleet of new tractor units and powder tankers; upgrades to the pre- heater riser, kiln feed and rail line at hope works; and a replacement excavator at the limestone quarry. tim billingham interim managing director breedon cement 7 march 2018 our hope cement works ships around a million tonnes of cement by rail direct to our four regional depots jess holland and daniel hobson, apprentices at hope works 20% of group revenue 28% of group underlying ebit 36 breedon group annual report 2017 www.breedongroup.com breedon cement traded strongly in 2017, with an accelerating performance in the second half.” 37 01 strategic report 02 03 04 our performance – financial review acquisitions i n may we acquired pro mini mix, a mini mix concrete operator based at oldbury in the black country and covering the west midlands. there is an integrated approach to governance across the business through management control, policies, procedures and training. we also saw a continuing improvement in the reporting of safety observations (formerly known as near-misses), which increased by 16 per cent year-on-year. every safety observation reported is a potential accident avoided, so we are pleased to see this continuing upward trend. 2.63 2.72 1.87 1.41 3.03 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 employee ltifr employee tifr (12-month rolling average) jan 17.47 14.28 feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec corporate social responsibility review continued 1. health & safety continued 44 breedon group annual report 2017 www.breedongroup.com safe shutdowns at breedon cement two major kiln shutdowns, two kiln pit- stops and a mill shutdown were carried out at hope cement works during 2017 involving more than 200,000 additional man-hours of work, carried out mainly by a range of engineering sub-contractors, without a single incident being recorded. breedon southern achieved transition to the new standard late last year, using west deeping as an example. we have 25 colleagues currently enrolled at derby university studying the various foundation degrees in mineral products and certificate programmes. this was achieved via an innovative mix with a unique combination of micro-silica, blended cement and special additives. meeting attendance meetings attended eligible to attend peter tom cbe 6 6 pat ward 6 6 rob wood 6 6 amit bhatia 5 6 susie farnon 6 6 simon vivian* 5 6 david warr 6 6 david williams 6 6 *simon vivian retired from the board on 7 march 2018. corporate governance report peter tom cbe executive chairman 54 breedon group annual report 2017 www.breedongroup.com 1 2 3 4 5 leadership effectiveness accountability remuneration relations with shareholders division of responsibilities the roles of chairman and group chief executive are not exercised by the same individual. he is also responsible for ensuring that the company maintains an appropriate level of dialogue with its shareholders. directors and senior managers ensure that the risk management framework is implemented effectively within their respective business areas. in addition, proxy votes will be counted and the results announced after any vote on a show of hands. in the table below we have set out a summary of our remuneration policy for executive directors. maximum opportunity in line with best and market practice, it is currently intended that rolling annual awards will be made. targets are set at levels which require stretching performance to be achieved for maximum payout, but without encouraging excessive risk-taking. operation non-executive directors each receive a basic fee for holding the office of non-executive director, and may also receive an additional fee for further responsibilities (such as holding the office of senior independent director or chairing a board committee). • where it is considered appropriate to reimburse the new director for any costs he/she may have incurred as a consequence of resigning from their previous employment. these appointments were noted by the nomination committee and, in accordance with its terms of reference, it will continue to keep succession planning for all senior executives under review, and it will receive an update on the plan on at least an annual basis. for these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement present. underlying measures are presented on a consistent basis over time to assist in the comparison of performance. mineral reserves and resources acquired in the normal course of business are held at historic cost on initial recognition. 2. every member who is present in person shall on a show of hands have one vote and every member present in person or by proxy shall on a poll have one vote for each share of which he or she is the holder. normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of crest proxy instructions. • beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details. shareholder information continued 118 breedon group annual report 2017 www.breedongroup.com electronic voting shareholders can submit proxies for the 2018 agm electronically by logging on to www.signalshares.com.