one way or another we connect everyone on the island and increasingly our business is about connecting everyday things in a more connected world. increasingly, we see demand in growing ‘internet of things’ sectors such as logistics, transport, security monitoring, utilities and energy. best known for its financial services industry, the island has successfully diversified across sectors including e-business, e-gaming and high-tech manufacturing. as such, the isle of man is a growing, affluent, low tax economy keen to embrace new technology. this strategy was supplemented in 2016 by the creation of vannin ventures, a 100%-owned business incubator targeting new innovative technologies and opportunities. this supports our progressive dividend policy, which has been maintained since admission at an annual increase of c.5%. 5 4 08 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 in this section, we illustrate some of our highlights and announcements over 2017. year in review milestones 31 march flagship manx telecom parish walk sponsorship extended to 2020 we were delighted to extend our sponsorship of the island’s leading mass participation sporting event to 2020, with the parish walk being heralded by ceo gary lamb as “a shining example of the island’s tremendous community spirit and enthusiasm for sport”. mobile or fixed, we are well placed to meet the island’s growing demand for high-speed and low-latency data services. recently we embraced the latest ‘software defined network’ architecture, migrating our entire fixed line customer base onto a software-based cloud computing platform. read the case study on page 20 read the case study on page 22 read the case study on page 24 15 manx telecom plc annual report and accounts 2017 overview strategic report governance report financial statements other 52% 40% 30% 2017 2016 2015 £3.2 2017 2016 nil 3.9 4.3 2017 2016 kpis challenges 2018 priorities vdsl uptake 52% premises passed by fttp by end 2018 4,600 programme costs – capex £3.2m goshawk addressable uk market 2.5m total programme costs – opex £8.2m roaming agreements 400+ fibre investment – fibre is our most strategic physical asset and we will continue to deploy all key broadband technologies (vdsl/fttc/ fttp), prioritising areas that offer lower cost to connect and a higher propensity of users to adopt higher speed solutions. our core domestic business performance in fixed line, broadband, data and mobile remained solid during the year. these price reductions were supported by improved cost control and have proved popular with our customer base. in august 2016, we launched vannin ventures, a standalone business established to support the company’s long-term growth strategy. indeed, wholesale roaming rates made it especially challenging to deliver the value we knew our customers craved, alongside an acceptable margin. headcount was reduced in q1 2017 by nearly 15% following a carefully considered voluntary redundancy programme that will deliver net cost savings from 2018 onwards. our ageing vehicle fleet was refreshed, changing from an outright ownership model to a new leased agreement, also delivering more fuel-efficiency and fewer environmental emissions. working spaces have also been re-designed to be more modern, open and productive – the first being completed in december 2017 for our customer experience team. in the uk alone, nine million people experience varying degrees of hearing loss, affecting their ability to use voice services on mobile phones. global solutions performed well, with full year revenue of £16.5m (2016: £15.6m), a 6.2% increase year-on-year, driven by continuous growth in our strongest signal mobile solution (branded chameleon), m2m, and international traveller propositions. energy costs were down 9% during 2017 due to a full year of customer consolidation in our data centre business. the group’s definition of these terms may not be comparable with similarly titled performance measures and disclosures by other entities. such non-gaap measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent gaap measure. in particular, a number of cloud based technologies have been implemented during the year, each with their own security arrangements. legislative change stable current corporate tax arrangements make the isle of man an attractive economy in which to invest and do business. jeffrey hume joined the business in 2013 as an independent non-executive director and chairman of its audit committee. gary is a qualified accountant (acma, cgma) who has gained extensive business experience over the past 25 years in numerous senior roles. the notice of annual general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies. all directors have access to services of the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring board procedures are complied with. as in prior years, bonuses were eligible to be earned based on performance against challenging underlying ebitda, free cash flow and revenue growth targets. awards are released subject to continued employment and satisfaction of challenging performance conditions measured over three years. the customer and people targets are based on our net promoter scores (which include data collated externally). however, it is our intention that details of the target ranges, and achievement against them, will be set out in next year’s report. there were no such events during 2017. both cash and share elements of the bonus are subject to clawback. fair value fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment from the date they are brought into use, in equal instalments over their estimated useful lives. any such write-down is charged to operating profit as an impairment loss and separately disclosed if material. the grant date fair value of share-based payment awards granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity. as a result of this ongoing work, it is possible that there may be some changes to the anticipated impact summarised below. as at 31 december 2017, the group’s future minimum lease payments under non- cancellable operating leases amounted to £3,146,000 (2016: £3,247,000) on an undiscounted basis (see note 19). some of the group’s assets and liabilities are measured at fair value for financial reporting purposes. transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities. other includes kit sales, directory revenues, managed service rental charges and revenue from the provision of telecommunications software. these balances are due from large international operators and therefore related recoverability risk is considered to be low. transaction costs of £1,475,000 were capitalised in 2014 and will be amortised over the loan period (as amended from 30 june 2015). on 1 december 2017, 43,301 new ordinary shares were issued and transferred to the manx telecom plc share incentive plan trust for nil consideration. this analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remained constant, and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (the fixed rate element of interest rate swaps). an equivalent cash settled share option scheme for non-isle of man resident employees was established in 2015, see below. the group’s definition of these terms may not be comparable with similarly titled performance measures and disclosures by other entities. such non-gaap measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent gaap measure.