in her place, john varley took over as senior independent non-executive director and rudy markham became chairman of the audit committee. on the other hand, taken together, symbicort, faslodex, onglyza, iressa, brilinta/brilique and seroquel xr accounted for more than 600 million of revenue growth. faster-developing economies, such as china, india and brazil, offer new opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry to help an expanding number of patients who can beneﬁt from innovative medicines. consequently, there is a heightened interest by health authorities in both comparative clinical effectiveness and the ongoing beneﬁt/risk assessment of medicines after they have been approved. astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 19 performance corporate governance financial statements additional information strategy overview the committee discussions ended without reaching an agreement and, barring future action by congress, sequestration was to take effect on 2 january 2013. sequestration would have impacted most federal government healthcare programmes with broad reductions in federal government spending. in germany, europe’s largest pharmaceutical market, manufacturers are now required to prove the additional beneﬁt of their drugs over existing alternatives. for some audiences, there is a perception that pharmaceutical companies place their commercial goals above the interests of patients, physicians and payers. innovative medicines offer beneﬁts that go beyond improving patient outcomes, helping to deliver economic efﬁciencies and supporting more effective allocation of scarce resources. performance | business review astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 32 a goal to speed the discovery of essential new treatments for tuberculosis (tb). for example, primary care physicians tend to be younger on average than previously, a greater proportion is female, and more work part-time. in 2012, we continued to establish more efﬁcient processes, with experts from our global supply chain organisation providing cross-functional support throughout the business. forty-three percent of suppliers audited demonstrated standards that met our expectations, with a further 53% implementing improvements to address minor non- compliances. 12 1.15 11 1.21 10 1.21 greenhouse gas emissions (million tonnes) 12 47.2 11 49.0 10 46.9 waste production (thousand tonnes) 12 3.6 11 4.5 10 4.5 water use (million m 3 ) astrazeneca annual report and form 20-f information 2012 43 strategy corporate governance financial statements additional information performance overview people a talented and diverse workforce with the right capabilities operating in a high performance culture that enables us to bring great medicines to patients workforce composition ﬁgure overleaf. with approximately 51,700 people in over 100 countries worldwide, we value the talents, skills and capabilities that a global workforce brings to our business. introduction at astrazeneca, we are dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialisation of prescription medicines that make a difference in healthcare. through our three patient assistance programmes in the us we donated products valued at an average wholesale price of over 1.12 billion (2011: 938 million). brilinta/brilique is an oral antiplatelet treatment for acs in a new chemical class called cyclo-pentyl-triazolo-pyrimidines which are selective adenosine diphospate (adp) receptor antagonists that act on the p2y12 adp-receptor. azd9773 (formerly known as cytofab), was a potential treatment for severe sepsis licensed from protherics inc. (now part of the btg plc group). our early research and development efforts aim to address multi-resistant bacterial strains expressing metallo-betalactamases, for which very few, if any, treatment options exist. our most advanced programme, azd5847 (a novel anti-tubercular oxazolidinone antibiotic), progressed to phase iia trials in south africa, with support from the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases. there remains a high unmet medical need for products that enable continued opioid pain control by reducing or eliminating side effects. at any time, more than 450 million people worldwide are affected by mental, neurological or behavioural problems, and the rate is steadily rising. this amount reﬂects only those effects of the affordable care act that we know have had or will have a direct impact on our ﬁnancial condition or results of operations and which we are therefore able to quantify based on known and isolatable resulting changes in individual ﬁnancial items within our financial statements. some strong growth markets such as vietnam are also implementing price and volume controls in an attempt to control government spending. we believe that the forward-looking statements about astrazeneca in this annual report, identiﬁed by words such as ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘expects’ and ‘intends’, are based on reasonable assumptions. delays to anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors including adverse ﬁndings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer. the failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in emerging markets may materially adversely affect our reputation, business or results of operations. this migration activity may not be completed on time and within budget, which could adversely impact our business or results of operations. failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control and regulation, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into us dollars may materially adversely affect our ﬁnancial condition or results of operations. as a result, core ﬁnancial measures merely allow investors to differentiate between different kinds of costs and they should not be used in isolation. in light of current market conditions, debts within these eurozone countries have been subject to enhanced monitoring and scrutiny by the group. adjusting for these items removes the volatility when impairments are booked on such assets and is intended to provide a better measure of underlying business performance. this methodology results in a less volatile income statement charge than under the alternative approach of recognising actuarial gains and losses over time. he is a doctor of veterinary medicine (école nationale vétérinaire d’alfort, maisons-alfort) and holds an mba from l ’institut supérieur des affaires, jouy-en-josas. in this capacity, he is accountable for driving growth and maximising the contribution of north america to astrazeneca’s global business. i am delighted that we were able to recruit pascal soriot and appoint him as astrazeneca’s new ceo with effect from 1 october. we have not yet produced a remuneration report that is fully compliant with the proposed new regulations because they are still to be published in their ﬁnal form. in accordance with the articles, following their appointment, directors must retire at each agm and may present themselves for election or re-election. we are also committed to sharing our global r&d expertise with the russian scientiﬁc community through research collaborations, support programmes and clinical trials. such payments are expensed if they represent compensation for subcontracted research and development services not resulting in a transfer of intellectual property. such a designation has been made where this significantly reduces an accounting mismatch which would result from recognising gains and losses on different bases. the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised totalled approximately 8,655m at 31 december 2012 (2011: 9,155m; 2010: 16,768m). economic benefits include relief from contingent payments and other cost efficiencies, together with the strategic advantages of increased freedom to operate. in the absence of specific market data, these unlisted investments are held at cost, adjusted as necessary for impairments, which approximates to fair value. there is also one senior staff long-term incentive scheme, under which 76 participants may be eligible for awards granted as astrazeneca adss. an option will normally be exercisable between three and 10 years following its grant provided any relevant performance condition has been satisfied. in november 2012, the court ruled that legal proceedings astrazeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its business, including actual or threatened litigation and/or actual or potential government investigations relating to employment matters, product liability, commercial disputes, pricing, sales and marketing practices, infringement of ip rights, the validity of certain patents and competition laws. we also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. all directors must retire from ofﬁce at the company’s agm each year and may present themselves for election or re-election.