a separate annual review and summary ﬁnancial statement for the year ended 31 march 2003 has been issued to all shareholders. we said 12 months ago that, in a turbulent market, your company had taken the hard decisions and necessary actions early. by concentrating on these three priorities we can continue to reward shareholders, drive down debt and invest in the business – where it matters. it sparks off tremendous demand and is growing at a rapid rate – connections having increased almost fourfold in the 2003 ﬁnancial year. although in most areas customer satisfaction is well ahead of our competitors, we will strive to make further signiﬁcant improvements. as at 16 may 2003, we had 936,000 adsl (asymmetric digital subscriber line) connections and are on track to meet our target of one million connections by summer 2003. the speed at which this is happening is generating economies of scale that will help us continue to reduce costs and progress beyond the one million ﬁgure. demerger of mmo 2 on 19 november 2001, we completed the demerger of mmo 2 , comprising what were bt’s wholly-owned mobile assets in europe: o 2 uk (formerly known as bt cellnet), o 2 communications (ireland) (formerly known as esat digifone), telfort mobiel, viag interkom, manx telecom and genie. we retained direct ownership of approximately 220 properties – including certain telephone exchanges, computer centres and high radio towers – totalling some 800,000 square metres. & crm developments included a strategic alliance with eckoh technologies, to provide speech recognition technology and the ﬁrst ‘‘pay as you go’’ contact centre service. & by march 2003, we were converting business customers to broadband at the rate of one line every minute (based on a 40 hour working week). against this background, bt openworld’s strategy is to create a proﬁtable business and drive the growing broadband market. bt openworld’s strategy is to increase its proﬁt from this area, while simultaneously migrating narrowband customers onto broadband access services. under this scheme, people in areas where the local exchange has not been upgraded for broadband adsl can register their interest via a service provider. in april 2003, bt wholesale announced that it would be proceeding with the full implementation of exchange activate from july 2003. & in april 2003, we signed a three-year contract with high street bank hbos plc to manage its voice and data services. nvp brightstar, which began operations in april 2003, has the exclusive rights to create new, start-up businesses with bt exact, using our extensive and developing intellectual property portfolio. one example of this is the my customer programme, targeted at 50,000 people in bt retail, to reinforce their engagement skills with customers. under the licence, we must allow other licensed operators to interconnect with our telecommunications systems on cost-oriented, transparent and non- discriminatory terms. we must publish audited ﬁnancial statements for the regulated ‘‘businesses’’ and ‘‘activities’’, in order to support the linkage of costs with interconnect prices and with a view to providing demonstrable evidence that we are neither behaving in a discriminatory fashion nor unfairly subsidising our activities. individual licences will be replaced by a general authorisation applying automatically to all providers of electronic communications networks and services. some additional obligations are proposed, such as guidelines that refer to a minimum data rate of 28.8 kbit/s which will have adverse cost implications for bt if implemented. the company has concluded that it is not appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential claim. we also employ a number of csr experts who investigate long-term societal trends, identify potential issues that might affect the business and support bt’s commercial activities. however, we have identiﬁed the issue of supply chain working conditions as posing a potential risk to our reputation. by 31 march 2003, 16 key suppliers (79% of those targeted) had signed an agreement with bt giving their written support concerning ethical trading. the focus of our community programmes is on big issues where better communication can make a real difference to society. for example, more than 8,300 schools and around two million young people engagements with the bt education programme – a drama-based campaign helping children to improve their communication skills – have taken place. we are working with childline on a major new campaign to help ensure that all young people can be heard. external turnover is derived from providing wholesale products and solutions to other operators interconnecting with bt’s uk ﬁxed network, including mmo 2 since the demerger. in the 2002 ﬁnancial year bt global services’ turnover was £4,472 million representing an increase of 29% driven mainly by solutions, european operations and uk ip revenues. bt remains committed to a progressive dividend policy, reﬂecting growth in earnings per share and an improving balance sheet. environment when removing old analogue exchange equipment from buildings, bt recycles the metal content and takes special care to properly dispose of any hazardous materials. prior to his retirement in may 2001, clayton brendish was executive deputy chairman of cmg having joined the board when it acquired admiral. aus national, he is aged 57. maarten van den bergh b,c,d,f maarten van den bergh was appointed to the board on 1 september 2000. he chairs the pension scheme performance review group.heis chairman of lloyds tsb group and a non-executive director of royal dutch petroleum company and british airways. a conﬁdential helpline and e-mail facility are also available to employees who have questions about the application of these principles. the pension schemes’ funds can only be used in accordance with their respective rules and for no other purpose. further details of their appointment arrangements are set out on page 53 in the section dealing with corporate governance issues. the entitlement shown above is after taking account of this increase, which was allowed for in last year’s accounts. turnover from classiﬁed directories, mainly comprising advertising revenue, is recognised in the group proﬁt and loss account upon completion of delivery. h on 5 january 2000, bt and at&t formed their global venture named concert for the two companies’ trans-border communications activities. d in connection with outstanding share options at the date of demerger, 57 million british telecommunications plc ordinary shares were issued on 14 november 2001 to a special purpose trust. the company has concluded that it is not appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such potential claim. these ﬁnancial instruments, under us gaap, are carried at market value with valuation adjustments recorded in the proﬁt and loss account. (h) deferred gain under uk gaap, assets contributed to a joint venture by the group’s partners are measured at their net replacement cost. under uk gaap, shares held by employee share ownership trusts are recorded as ﬁxed asset investments at cost less amounts written off. ii net income and shareholders’ equity reconciliation statements the following statements summarise the material estimated adjustments, gross of their tax effect, which reconcile net income and shareholders’ equity from that reported under uk gaap to that which would have been reported had us gaap been applied. securities classiﬁed as available-for-sale would be stated at fair values, with unrealised gains and losses, net of deferred taxes, reported in shareholders’ equity. share capital b= billions m= millions activity issued a percentage owned country of operations b joint ventures albacom spa communication related services and products provider e417m 45.5% c italy lg telecom mobile cellular telephone system provider and operator won 1,386b 16.59% republic of south korea a issued share capital comprises ordinary or common shares, unless otherwise stated. sharegift the orr mackintosh foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them. us persons who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish irs form w-9 (request for taxpayer identiﬁcation number and certiﬁcation).